powerbi-docs/paginated-reports/paginated-reports-download-rdl.md, before:

---
title: "Create a paginated report from a Power BI report or dataset"
description: In this article, you learn how to create a paginated report from a Power BI report or a shared dataset in the Power BI service.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: mibruhje
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: report-builder
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/05/2020
---

# Create a paginated report from a Power BI report or dataset

[!INCLUDE [applies-yes-paginated-yes-service-no-desktop](../includes/applies-yes-paginated-yes-service-no-desktop.md)] 

In this article, you learn how to create a paginated report from a Power BI report or a shared dataset in the Power BI service. 

1. Go to list view for any workspace, including My Workspace. 
1. There are three different ways you can create a paginated report from the Power BI service:

    In list view, select **More options (...)** for a Power BI report, then select **Create paginated report**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-paginated-download-rdl.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Create a paginated report from a Power BI report in the Power BI service.":::

    Or in list view, select **More options (...)** for a dataset, then select **Create paginated report**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-paginated-dataset.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Create a paginated report from a shared dataset in the Power BI service."::: 

    Or from the navigation pane, select **More options (...)** for a dataset, then select **Create paginated report**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-paginated-dataset-navigation.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Create a paginated report from a shared dataset in the navigation pane in the Power BI service.":::

1. You see a message that you need some Power BI Report Builder updates. Select **Download**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-report-builder-updates.png" alt-text="Screenshot of installing Power BI Report Builder updates.":::

    If you know you have the most recent version of Power BI Report Builder, select **I've already installed these updates**.

1. Go through the Power BI Report Builder installation process: 

    1. Select **Download**.  
    2. Select **Open file** and go through the steps in the Power BI Report Builder Setup Wizard.

1. When the Report Builder installation is finished, go back to the Power BI service and select **Create paginated report**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-report-builder-finished-installing.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Create a paginated report dialog box.":::

1. Select **Open** in the browser window.

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-paginated-open-file.png" alt-text="Screenshot of selecting Open File in a browser.":::

1. Power BI Report Builder opens with an automatically generated title, and the Power BI dataset .pbix file in the **Data Sources** folder. The data source has the same name as the Power BI dataset.

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-report-builder-design-canvas.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Power BI Report Builder in Design view.":::

    The design surface also features a link to the [Power BI Paginated Reports in a Day](../learning-catalog/paginated-reports-online-course.md) video-based course. If you're new to paginated report creation, the course is a good way to get up to speed.  You can delete it when you start designing your report.

    You're ready to start designing your paginated report.
 
## Next steps 

- [What are paginated reports in Power BI Premium?](paginated-reports-report-builder-power-bi.md)  
- [Tutorial: Create a paginated report and upload it to the Power BI service](paginated-reports-quickstart-aw.md)
- [Publish a paginated report to the Power BI service](paginated-reports-save-to-power-bi-service.md)

Commit message:

ms new includes, add premium to paginated

powerbi-docs/paginated-reports/paginated-reports-download-rdl.md, after:

---
title: "Create a paginated report from a Power BI report or dataset"
description: In this article, you learn how to create a paginated report from a Power BI report or a shared dataset in the Power BI service.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: mibruhje
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: report-builder
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/05/2020
---

# Create a paginated report from a Power BI report or dataset

[!INCLUDE [applies-yes-paginated-yes-service-no-desktop](../includes/applies-yes-paginated-yes-service-no-desktop.md)] 

In this article, you learn how to create a paginated report from a Power BI report or a shared dataset in the Power BI service. 

## Prerequisites 

- To create a Power BI paginated report in the Power BI service, you need a [Power BI Pro](../fundamentals/service-self-service-signup-for-power-bi.md) license, or [Premium Per User (PPU)](../admin/service-premium-per-user-faq.yml) license, and write access to a workspace in a Power BI Premium capacity.

## Create the paginated report

1. Go to list view for any workspace, including My Workspace. 
1. There are three different ways you can create a paginated report from the Power BI service:

    In list view, select **More options (...)** for a Power BI report, then select **Create paginated report**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-paginated-download-rdl.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Create a paginated report from a Power BI report in the Power BI service.":::

    Or in list view, select **More options (...)** for a dataset, then select **Create paginated report**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-paginated-dataset.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Create a paginated report from a shared dataset in the Power BI service."::: 

    Or from the navigation pane, select **More options (...)** for a dataset, then select **Create paginated report**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-paginated-dataset-navigation.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Create a paginated report from a shared dataset in the navigation pane in the Power BI service.":::

1. You see a message that you need some Power BI Report Builder updates. Select **Download**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-report-builder-updates.png" alt-text="Screenshot of installing Power BI Report Builder updates.":::

    If you know you have the most recent version of Power BI Report Builder, select **I've already installed these updates**.

1. Go through the Power BI Report Builder installation process: 

    1. Select **Download**.  
    2. Select **Open file** and go through the steps in the Power BI Report Builder Setup Wizard.

1. When the Report Builder installation is finished, go back to the Power BI service and select **Create paginated report**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-report-builder-finished-installing.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Create a paginated report dialog box.":::

1. Select **Open** in the browser window.

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-paginated-open-file.png" alt-text="Screenshot of selecting Open File in a browser.":::

1. Power BI Report Builder opens with an automatically generated title, and the Power BI dataset .pbix file in the **Data Sources** folder. The data source has the same name as the Power BI dataset.

    :::image type="content" source="media/paginated-reports-download-rdl/power-bi-report-builder-design-canvas.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Power BI Report Builder in Design view.":::

    The design surface also features a link to the [Power BI Paginated Reports in a Day](../learning-catalog/paginated-reports-online-course.md) video-based course. If you're new to paginated report creation, the course is a good way to get up to speed.  You can delete it when you start designing your report.

    You're ready to start designing your paginated report.
 
## Next steps 

- [What are paginated reports in Power BI Premium?](paginated-reports-report-builder-power-bi.md)  
- [Tutorial: Create a paginated report and upload it to the Power BI service](paginated-reports-quickstart-aw.md)
- [Publish a paginated report to the Power BI service](paginated-reports-save-to-power-bi-service.md)
