powerbi-docs/paginated-reports/report-builder-web-proxy-authentication.md, before:

---
title: Use default system credentials for web proxy in Power BI Report Builder
description: System or network administrators can allow the use of default system credentials for web proxy authentication.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.date: 09/07/2021
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: report-builder
ms.topic: troubleshooting

---
# Use default system credentials for web proxy in Power BI Report Builder

[!INCLUDE [applies-yes-paginated-yes-service-no-desktop](../includes/applies-yes-paginated-yes-service-no-desktop.md)] 

Web requests issued by Power BI Report Builder don't use web proxy credentials. In networks that use a proxy server, Power BI Report Builder may not be able to successfully make web requests.

System or network administrators can allow the use of default system credentials for web proxy authentication. Administrators can create a REG_DWORD registry entry called **UseDefaultCredentialsForProxy**, and set the value to one (1) to enable the use of default system credentials for web proxy authentication.

The registry entry can be placed in the following location (you may need to create the **Microsoft Power BI Report Builder** registry key):

`[HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Microsoft Power BI Report Builder]`

After you create the registry entry, a reboot may be necessary. From then on, when Power BI Report Builder makes web requests, it uses the proxy settings that are defined in Internet Explorer.

As with any change to proxy or credential settings, there are security implications to creating this registry entry. Administrators must make sure they have configured the Internet Explorer proxies correctly before they enable this feature.

## Limitations and considerations for using default system credentials

Administrators, there are security implications to consider before enabling this capability. Follow these recommendations whenever enabling this feature for clients:

- Only use **Negotiation** as the authentication scheme for the proxy server, to ensure only proxy servers that are joined to the Active Directory network are used by the client. 
- Don't use **NTLM fallback** on clients that use this feature.
- If users aren't on a network with a proxy when admins enable and configure this feature as recommended in this article, the process of attempting to contact the proxy server and using default system credentials isn't used.

## Next steps

- [What are paginated reports in Power BI Premium?](paginated-reports-report-builder-power-bi.md)

Commit message:

Added error seen when this registry key is required

powerbi-docs/paginated-reports/report-builder-web-proxy-authentication.md, after:

---
title: Use default system credentials for web proxy in Power BI Report Builder
description: System or network administrators can allow the use of default system credentials for web proxy authentication.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.date: 09/28/2021
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: report-builder
ms.topic: troubleshooting

---
# Use default system credentials for web proxy in Power BI Report Builder

[!INCLUDE [applies-yes-paginated-yes-service-no-desktop](../includes/applies-yes-paginated-yes-service-no-desktop.md)] 

Web requests issued by Power BI Report Builder don't use web proxy credentials. In networks that use a proxy server, Power BI Report Builder may not be able to successfully make web requests. You may see the error - "The remote server returned an error: (407) Proxy Authentication Required."

System or network administrators can allow the use of default system credentials for web proxy authentication. Administrators can create a REG_DWORD registry entry called **UseDefaultCredentialsForProxy**, and set the value to one (1) to enable the use of default system credentials for web proxy authentication.

The registry entry can be placed in the following location (you may need to create the **Microsoft Power BI Report Builder** registry key):

`[HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Microsoft Power BI Report Builder]`

After you create the registry entry, a reboot may be necessary. From then on, when Power BI Report Builder makes web requests, it uses the proxy settings that are defined in Internet Explorer.

As with any change to proxy or credential settings, there are security implications to creating this registry entry. Administrators must make sure they have configured the Internet Explorer proxies correctly before they enable this feature.

## Limitations and considerations for using default system credentials

Administrators, there are security implications to consider before enabling this capability. Follow these recommendations whenever enabling this feature for clients:

- Only use **Negotiation** as the authentication scheme for the proxy server, to ensure only proxy servers that are joined to the Active Directory network are used by the client. 
- Don't use **NTLM fallback** on clients that use this feature.
- If users aren't on a network with a proxy when admins enable and configure this feature as recommended in this article, the process of attempting to contact the proxy server and using default system credentials isn't used.

## Next steps

- [What are paginated reports in Power BI Premium?](paginated-reports-report-builder-power-bi.md)
