powerbi-docs/paginated-reports/report-builder-url-pass-parameters.md, before:

---
title: "Pass a report parameter in a URL for a paginated report - Power BI Report Builder"
description: This topic describes how to pass report parameters to a report by including them in a paginated report URL.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: report-builder
ms.topic: how-to
ms.reviewer: "cfinlan"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: 05/18/2021
---

# Pass a report parameter in a URL for a paginated report in Power BI 

[!INCLUDE [applies-to](../includes/applies-to.md)] [!INCLUDE [yes-service](../includes/yes-service.md)] [!INCLUDE [yes-mobile](../includes/yes-mobile.md)] [!INCLUDE [yes-paginated](../includes/yes-paginated.md)] [!INCLUDE [yes-premium](../includes/yes-premium.md)] [!INCLUDE [no-desktop](../includes/no-desktop.md)] 

You can pass report parameters to a report by including them in a paginated report URL. All query parameters can have corresponding report parameters. Therefore, you pass a query parameter to a report by passing the corresponding report parameter. You need to prefix the parameter name with `rp:` for Power BI to recognize it in the URL. 

Report parameters are case-sensitive and use these special characters: 

- A space in the parameter portion of the URL is replaced with a plus sign (+).  For example: 

    ```rp:Holiday=Christmas+Day```

- A semicolon in any portion of the string is replaced with the characters `%3A`.

Browsers should automatically perform the proper URL encoding. You don't have to encode any of the characters manually. 

To set a report parameter within a URL, use the following syntax: 

```
rp:parameter=value
```

For example, to specify two parameters, "Salesperson" and "State", defined in a report in your My Workspace,you'd use the following URL: 

```
https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/rdlreports/xxxxxxx-abc7-40f0-b456-febzf9cdda4d?rp:Salesperson=Tie+Bear&rp:State=Utah 
```

To specify the same two parameters defined in a report in an app, you'd use the following URL: 

```
https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/apps/xxxxxxx-c4c4-4217-afd9-3920a0d1e2b0/rdlreports/b1d5e659-639e-41d0-b733-05d2bca9853c?rp:Salesperson=Tiggee&rp:State=Utah 
```

To pass a null value for a parameter, use the following syntax: 

```
parameter:isnull=true
```

For example:

```
rp:SalesOrderNumber:isnull=true
```

To pass a Boolean value, use 0 for false and 1 for true. To pass a Float value, include the decimal separator of the server locale.

> [!NOTE]
> If your report contains a report parameter that has a default value, and the value of the **Prompt** property is **false** (that is, the **Prompt User** property isn't selected in Report Manager), then you can't pass a value for that report parameter within a URL. This provides administrators the option of preventing end users from adding or modifying the values of certain report parameters.
> 
> Power BI does not support a query string of more than 2,000 characters.  This value can be exceeded if you are using url parameters to view your paginated report.  It is especially true if you are using multi-value parameters.

## Additional examples 

The following URL example includes a multi-value parameter "Salesperson”. The format for a multi-value parameter is to repeat the parameter name for each value. 

```
https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/rdlreports/xxxxxxx-abc7-40f0-b456-febzf9cdda4d?rp:Salesperson=Tie+Bear&rp:Salesperson=Mickey 
```

The following URL example passes a single parameter of SellStartDate with a value of "7/1/2005", for a native mode report server.

```
https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/rdlreports/xxxxxxx-abc7-40f0-b456-febzf9cdda4d?rp:SellStartDate=7/1/2005
```

## Next steps

- [URL parameters in paginated reports in Power BI](report-builder-url-parameters.md)
- [What are paginated reports in Power BI Premium?](paginated-reports-report-builder-power-bi.md)

Commit message:

ms new includes, add premium to paginated

powerbi-docs/paginated-reports/report-builder-url-pass-parameters.md, after:

---
title: "Pass a report parameter in a URL for a paginated report - Power BI Report Builder"
description: This topic describes how to pass report parameters to a report by including them in a paginated report URL.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: report-builder
ms.topic: how-to
ms.reviewer: "cfinlan"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: 05/18/2021
---

# Pass a report parameter in a URL for a paginated report in Power BI 

[!INCLUDE [applies-to](../includes/applies-to.md)] [!INCLUDE [yes-service](../includes/yes-service.md)] [!INCLUDE [yes-mobile](../includes/yes-mobile.md)] [!INCLUDE [yes-paginated](../includes/yes-paginated.md)] [!INCLUDE [yes-premium](../includes/yes-premium.md)] [!INCLUDE [no-desktop](../includes/no-desktop.md)] 

You can pass report parameters to a report by including them in a paginated report URL. All query parameters can have corresponding report parameters. Therefore, you pass a query parameter to a report by passing the corresponding report parameter. You need to prefix the parameter name with `rp:` for Power BI to recognize it in the URL. 

Report parameters are case-sensitive and use these special characters: 

- A space in the parameter portion of the URL is replaced with a plus sign (+).  For example: 

    ```rp:Holiday=Christmas+Day```

- A semicolon in any portion of the string is replaced with the characters `%3A`.

Browsers should automatically perform the proper URL encoding. You don't have to encode any of the characters manually. 

## Prerequisites 

- To publish a Power BI paginated report to the Power BI service, you need a [Power BI Pro](../fundamentals/service-self-service-signup-for-power-bi.md) license, or [Premium Per User (PPU)](../admin/service-premium-per-user-faq.yml) license, and write access to a workspace in a Power BI Premium capacity.

## Parameter examples

To set a report parameter within a URL, use the following syntax: 

```
rp:parameter=value
```

For example, to specify two parameters, "Salesperson" and "State", defined in a report in your My Workspace,you'd use the following URL: 

```
https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/rdlreports/xxxxxxx-abc7-40f0-b456-febzf9cdda4d?rp:Salesperson=Tie+Bear&rp:State=Utah 
```

To specify the same two parameters defined in a report in an app, you'd use the following URL: 

```
https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/apps/xxxxxxx-c4c4-4217-afd9-3920a0d1e2b0/rdlreports/b1d5e659-639e-41d0-b733-05d2bca9853c?rp:Salesperson=Tiggee&rp:State=Utah 
```

To pass a null value for a parameter, use the following syntax: 

```
parameter:isnull=true
```

For example:

```
rp:SalesOrderNumber:isnull=true
```

To pass a Boolean value, use 0 for false and 1 for true. To pass a Float value, include the decimal separator of the server locale.

> [!NOTE]
> If your report contains a report parameter that has a default value, and the value of the **Prompt** property is **false** (that is, the **Prompt User** property isn't selected in Report Manager), then you can't pass a value for that report parameter within a URL. This provides administrators the option of preventing end users from adding or modifying the values of certain report parameters.
> 
> Power BI does not support a query string of more than 2,000 characters.  This value can be exceeded if you are using url parameters to view your paginated report.  It is especially true if you are using multi-value parameters.

## Additional examples 

The following URL example includes a multi-value parameter "Salesperson”. The format for a multi-value parameter is to repeat the parameter name for each value. 

```
https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/rdlreports/xxxxxxx-abc7-40f0-b456-febzf9cdda4d?rp:Salesperson=Tie+Bear&rp:Salesperson=Mickey 
```

The following URL example passes a single parameter of SellStartDate with a value of "7/1/2005", for a native mode report server.

```
https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/rdlreports/xxxxxxx-abc7-40f0-b456-febzf9cdda4d?rp:SellStartDate=7/1/2005
```

## Next steps

- [URL parameters in paginated reports in Power BI](report-builder-url-parameters.md)
- [What are paginated reports in Power BI Premium?](paginated-reports-report-builder-power-bi.md)
