powerbi-docs/enterprise/regions-power-bi-china-cloud.md, before:

---
title: Power BI operated by 21Vianet in China
description: Provides information about the Power BI service operated by 21Vianet in China, including feature parity details
author: davidiseminger
ms.author: davidi
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-admin
ms.topic: conceptual 
ms.date: 04/18/2023
ms.custom: 
---

# Power BI - operated by 21Vianet in China

Microsoft Power BI service operated by 21Vianet is designed to comply with regulatory requirements in China. The services are a physically separated environment of cloud services operated and transacted currently by a local operator, Shanghai Blue Cloud Technology Co., Ltd (“21Vianet”). This operator is a wholly owned subsidiary of Beijing 21Vianet Broadband Data Center Co., Ltd. located in China.


## Power BI feature availability

To accommodate the requirements of regional cloud customers, Power BI operated by 21Vianet plans differ from commercial plans in some respects. We attempt to make features available within 30 days of general availability. However in some cases, underlying dependencies prevent a feature from being available.

The following table lists features of Power BI that are **not** yet available in the Power BI operated by 21Vianet environment, or that are available with limited functionality. 

|Product area | Feature or scenario | Commercial cloud status | 21Vianet availability | More information |
|----|----|----|----|----|
|Power BI | Purview integration with Power BI |Generally available | Not available |  |
|Power BI | Using Azure ExpressRoute to integrate an on-premises gateway | Generally available | Not available | [Azure ExpressRoute for Office 365](/microsoft-365/enterprise/azure-expressroute) isn't supported in the 21Vianet environment. |
|Power BI | Template app marketplace | Generally available | Not available | AppSource isn't available in China. |
| Power BI | Datamart | Public preview | Not available |  |
| Power BI and Office | Teams - embed interactive Power BI report | Generally available | Not available | |
|Power BI scalability | Large models | Generally available | Generally available in China East 2 and China North 2 only |  |

## Related content

To learn more about Power BI operated by 21Vianet in China, see the following resources:

- [Azure China 21Vianet](/azure/china/china-welcome)
- [Support site for 21Vianet (in Chinese)](https://www.21vbluecloud.com/Dynamics365/)
- [Power BI for US government customers](service-govus-overview.md)

Commit message:

Updating unavailable functionality for mooncake - multi-geo scorecards

powerbi-docs/enterprise/regions-power-bi-china-cloud.md, after:

---
title: Power BI operated by 21Vianet in China
description: Provides information about the Power BI service operated by 21Vianet in China, including feature parity details
author: davidiseminger
ms.author: davidi
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-admin
ms.topic: conceptual 
ms.date: 04/02/2024
ms.custom: 
---

# Power BI - operated by 21Vianet in China

Microsoft Power BI service operated by 21Vianet is designed to comply with regulatory requirements in China. The services are a physically separated environment of cloud services operated and transacted currently by a local operator, Shanghai Blue Cloud Technology Co., Ltd (“21Vianet”). This operator is a wholly owned subsidiary of Beijing 21Vianet Broadband Data Center Co., Ltd. located in China.


## Power BI feature availability

To accommodate the requirements of regional cloud customers, Power BI operated by 21Vianet plans differ from commercial plans in some respects. We attempt to make features available within 30 days of general availability. However in some cases, underlying dependencies prevent a feature from being available.

The following table lists features of Power BI that are **not** yet available in the Power BI operated by 21Vianet environment, or that are available with limited functionality. 

|Product area | Feature or scenario | Commercial cloud status | 21Vianet availability | More information |
|----|----|----|----|----|
|Power BI | Purview integration with Power BI |Generally available | Not available |  |
|Power BI | Using Azure ExpressRoute to integrate an on-premises gateway | Generally available | Not available | [Azure ExpressRoute for Office 365](/microsoft-365/enterprise/azure-expressroute) isn't supported in the 21Vianet environment. |
|Power BI | Template app marketplace | Generally available | Not available | AppSource isn't available in China. |
| Power BI | Datamart | Public preview | Not available |  |
| Power BI and Office | Teams - embed interactive Power BI report | Generally available | Not available | |
|Power BI scalability | Large models | Generally available | Generally available in China East 2 and China North 2 only |  |
|Power BI | Scorecards | Generally available | Not available for 21Vianet multi-geo capacities |  |


## Related content

To learn more about Power BI operated by 21Vianet in China, see the following resources:

- [Azure China 21Vianet](/azure/china/china-welcome)
- [Support site for 21Vianet (in Chinese)](https://www.21vbluecloud.com/Dynamics365/)
- [Power BI for US government customers](service-govus-overview.md)
