---
title: Use customer-managed keys in Power BI
description: Learn how your organization can benefit from customer-managed keys to encrypt your data in Power BI.
author: davidiseminger
ms.author: davidi
ms.reviewer: ''
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-admin
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 11/21/2022
LocalizationGroup: Premium
---

# Use customer-managed keys in Power BI

Power BI encrypts data at rest and in process. By default, Power BI uses Microsoft-managed keys to encrypt your data. Organizations can choose to use their own keys for encryption of user content at rest across Power BI, from report images to imported datasets in Premium capacities.

## Why use customer-managed keys

With Power BI customer-managed keys (CMK), organizations can meet compliance requirements for data encryption at rest with their cloud service provider (in this case, Microsoft). CMK is only offered to new Power BI Premium customers. It enables your organization to encrypt Power BI user content using a key that you provide and manage. Revoking a customer-managed key makes user content within Power BI unreadable for everyone within an hour, including Microsoft. Compared to the BYOK offering, CMK covers user content that is generated by the service, and customer data that is imported into reports and datasets hosted on Premium capacities. It enforces stricter caching policies, and you can only apply a single key to encrypt all the data.

## How to use customer-managed keys

To opt in to Power BI customer-managed keys, contact your Microsoft account manager to validate that your organization meets the size requirements that are required for enabling CMK.  

## Next steps

The following links provide information that can be useful for customer-managed keys:

* [Bring your own encryption keys for Power BI](service-encryption-byok.md)
* [Configure Multi-Geo support for Power BI Premium](../admin/service-admin-premium-multi-geo.md)
* [How capacities function](service-premium-what-is.md#how-capacities-function)
* [Power BI security white paper](../guidance/whitepaper-powerbi-security.md)
