powerbi-docs/consumer/business-user-teams-goals.md, before:

---
title: Use Power BI goals to improve results in Microsoft Teams
description: Use goals in Power BI to help you curate metrics that matter, assign them to the right people, and track over time.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: mihart, lukaszp
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-explore
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 09/24/2021
LocalizationGroup: Get started

---

# Use Power BI goals to improve results in Microsoft Teams

[!INCLUDE[consumer-appliesto-ynny](../includes/consumer-appliesto-ynny.md)]

Teams benefit from having clear and measurable objectives. Tracking goals in Microsoft Teams with your team helps the team stay on track, promoting accountability, alignment, and visibility. By tracking progress towards key objectives together, the team can engage in creative and agile decision-making that helps achieve objectives faster. 

It takes just a minute to create a goal in Power BI. Each goal has a name, owner, the current value, the target, and a status. You can even add start and end dates for the goal. Sub-goals help you track key objectives that are needed to support a bigger goal.

## Add the Power BI personal app to Teams

- In Microsoft Teams, select **More added apps ...** > **Power BI**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-add-app.png" alt-text="Select More added apps, then Power BI.":::

    Now Power BI opens right inside Microsoft Teams.

## Create your first goal in a scorecard

It's simple to start tracking goals by creating a scorecard.

1. Open Power BI in Teams.
2. Select **Goals** in the navigation pane to open the Goals hub.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-app-goals-icon.png" alt-text="Select Goals in the navigation pane to open the Goals hub.":::

3. Select **New scorecard**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-app-goals-new-scorecard.png" alt-text="Select New scorecard.":::

1. Give the scorecard a name and description.
1. Create a goal in the scorecard, with a **Goal name**, **Current** and **Target** values, **Status**, and **Start** and **Due dates**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-new-goal-percent.png" alt-text="Create a goal by completing the needed values.":::

1. Select **Save**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-new-goal.png" alt-text="Save your new goal.":::

After you’ve saved your scorecard with its goals, you can share with your team by adding it to a Teams meeting, channel, or chat as a tab or as a link in the meeting chat. Read more about [creating scorecards and goals in Power BI](../create-reports/service-goals-introduction.md).

## Track goals with your team

To keep your goals top of mind for your team, add your scorecards as tabs to your channels and meetings.

1. Open a channel or meeting.
4. Select the **+ Add a tab** button and add the Power BI tab.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-channel-plus-sign.png" alt-text="Select the plus sign to add a tab.":::

3. Pick a scorecard. If you keep **Post to the channel about this tab** selected, Teams adds a post to the chat, about the new tab.

1. Select **Save** to finish adding the scorecard to the channel as a tab.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-add-scorecard-tab-save.png" alt-text="Select Save to finish adding the scorecard to the channel as a tab.":::

1. You may need to share it with colleagues. See [Give team members permission](business-user-teams-share-data.md#give-team-members-permission) in the "Lead data-driven discussions in Microsoft Teams" article for how to share with your colleagues.

1. Open the chat window in Teams to see the post about the scorecard.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-scorecard-chat.png" alt-text="Open the chat window in Teams to see the post about the scorecard.":::

## Make tracking goals part of your team rhythm

Make keeping your goals up to date easier with just a little more work. Here are a few capabilities to explore:

- Use check-ins for goals to share context about goals. By encouraging and reviewing check-ins on goals, your team can share the *why* behind the numbers so they’re visible to everyone.
- Automatically update your goals' current values. By connecting your goal to a report, whenever the data in the report refreshes, the goal’s current value is automatically kept up to date. 
- Set the goal status automatically.  By creating automated rules to set the status of goals, the goal’s status always reflects the data correctly.

These capabilities help your team save time by eliminating manual updates, and helps keep scorecards fully updated.

## Find all your goals in the Goals hub

Each project and organization can have its own goals. You can find all your goals in one place in the Goals hub that is part of the Power BI app for Microsoft Teams. Here’s how to find it.

1. Open the Power BI app for Teams from the Teams left navigation.
2. Select **Goals** in the Power BI navigation pane to open the Goals hub.

## Next steps

- [Create scorecards and goals in Power BI](../create-reports/service-goals-introduction.md)
- [Share a data-driven discussion in Microsoft Teams](business-user-teams-share-data.md)
- [Use data to make better meetings in Microsoft Teams](business-user-teams-data.md)

Commit message:

ms teams data culture, lukasz feedback

powerbi-docs/consumer/business-user-teams-goals.md, after:

---
title: Use Power BI goals to improve results in Microsoft Teams
description: Use goals in Power BI to help you curate metrics that matter, assign them to the right people, and track over time.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: mihart, lukaszp
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-explore
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 10/04/2021
LocalizationGroup: Get started

---

# Use Power BI goals to improve results in Microsoft Teams

[!INCLUDE[consumer-appliesto-ynny](../includes/consumer-appliesto-ynny.md)]

Teams benefit from having clear and measurable objectives. Tracking goals in Microsoft Teams with your team helps the team stay on track, promoting accountability, alignment, and visibility. By tracking progress towards key objectives together, the team can engage in creative and agile decision-making that helps achieve objectives faster. 

It takes just a minute to create a goal in Power BI. Each goal has a name, owner, the current value, the target, and a status. You can even add start and end dates for the goal. Sub-goals help you track key objectives that are needed to support a bigger goal.

## Add the Power BI personal app to Teams

- In Microsoft Teams, select **More added apps ...** > **Power BI**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-add-app.png" alt-text="Select More added apps, then Power BI.":::

    Now Power BI opens right inside Microsoft Teams.

## Create your first goal in a scorecard

It's simple to start tracking goals by creating a scorecard.

1. Open Power BI in Teams.
2. Select **Goals** in the navigation pane to open the Goals hub.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-app-goals-icon.png" alt-text="Select Goals in the navigation pane to open the Goals hub.":::

3. Select **New scorecard**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-app-goals-new-scorecard.png" alt-text="Select New scorecard.":::

1. Give the scorecard a name and description.
1. Create a goal in the scorecard, with a **Goal name**, **Current** and **Target** values, **Status**, and **Start** and **Due dates**. You can type in numbers, or you select **connect to data** to get values from your reports.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-new-goal-percent.png" alt-text="Create a goal by completing the needed values.":::

1. Select **Save**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-new-goal.png" alt-text="Save your new goal.":::

After you’ve saved your scorecard with its goals, you can share with your team by adding it to a Teams meeting, channel, or chat as a tab or as a link in the meeting chat. Read more about [creating scorecards and goals in Power BI](../create-reports/service-goals-introduction.md).

## Track goals with your team

To keep your goals top of mind for your team, add your scorecards as tabs to your channels and meetings.

1. Open a channel or meeting.
4. Select the **+ Add a tab** button and add the Power BI tab.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-channel-plus-sign.png" alt-text="Select the plus sign to add a tab.":::

3. Pick a scorecard. If you keep **Post to the channel about this tab** selected, Teams adds a post to the chat, about the new tab.

1. Select **Save** to finish adding the scorecard to the channel as a tab.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-add-scorecard-tab-save.png" alt-text="Select Save to finish adding the scorecard to the channel as a tab.":::

1. You may need to share it with colleagues. See [Give team members permission](business-user-teams-share-data.md#give-team-members-permission) in the "Lead data-driven discussions in Microsoft Teams" article for how to share with your colleagues.

1. Open the chat window in Teams to see the post about the scorecard.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-goals/teams-power-bi-scorecard-chat.png" alt-text="Open the chat window in Teams to see the post about the scorecard.":::

## Make tracking goals part of your team rhythm

Make keeping your goals up to date easier with just a little more work. Here are a few capabilities to explore:

- Use check-ins for goals to share context about goals. By encouraging and reviewing check-ins on goals, your team can share the *why* behind the numbers so they’re visible to everyone.
- Automatically update your goals' current values. By connecting your goal to a report, whenever the data in the report refreshes, the goal’s current value is automatically kept up to date. 
- Set the goal status automatically.  By creating automated rules to set the status of goals, the goal’s status always reflects the data correctly.

These capabilities help your team save time by eliminating manual updates, and helps keep scorecards fully updated.

## Find all your goals in the Goals hub

Each project and organization can have its own goals. You can find all your goals in one place in the Goals hub that is part of the Power BI app for Microsoft Teams. Here’s how to find it.

1. Open the Power BI app for Teams from the Teams left navigation.
2. Select **Goals** in the Power BI navigation pane to open the Goals hub.

## Next steps

- [Create scorecards and goals in Power BI](../create-reports/service-goals-introduction.md)
- [Share a data-driven discussion in Microsoft Teams](business-user-teams-share-data.md)
- [Use data to make better meetings in Microsoft Teams](business-user-teams-data.md)
