powerbi-docs/consumer/business-user-teams-share-data.md, before:

---
title: Lead data-driven discussions in Microsoft Teams
description: Sharing data with your team is important and easy with Power BI in Teams.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: mihart, lukaszp
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-explore
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 09/16/2021
LocalizationGroup: Get started

---

# Lead data-driven discussions in Microsoft Teams

[!INCLUDE[consumer-appliesto-ynny](../includes/consumer-appliesto-ynny.md)]

Data helps everyone get on the same page before important decisions. Sharing data with your team is important and easy with Power BI in Microsoft Teams.

## Share with your channels, chats, and meetings

1. Open the channel, chat, or meeting where you’d like to share.
4. Select the **+ Add a tab** button and add the Power BI tab.
3. Pick the Power BI item you’d like to share.
4. Select **Save**.

This works in channels, meetings, and even in chats.

### Give team members permission

Make sure your team has permission to the item by sharing it with them.

1. Open the item in the Power BI service. Select **Share** and add the names of the meeting attendees.
1. Copy the link to provide everyone with permission to view the report.

If you can’t give permission, don’t worry. They can also request access when they try to view the report.

## Chat about data with rich links and cards

When discussing data, it’s important that your colleagues can open the underlying data to see and explore trends. This helps them answer questions and understand the full context of requests you’re making. It’s also an easy way to encourage more use of data in decision making.

### Discussing data is easy

1. Open a report in the Power BI app in Teams, or in the Power BI service.
2. (Optionally) You can select a specific data visualization, if you want.
3. Select **Chat in Teams**.
4. Send a message to a channel where you work with your team.

The link will include the full context of what data you were looking at, including the page, visual, any filters applied. When your colleagues open the link, they quickly see the data you’re referring to.

### Quickly send your colleagues links to reports

1. In the Teams channel or chat, start a new conversation.
2. In the command bar for the editor, select **… Messaging extensions** and pick or search for Power BI.
3. Pick or search for the content you want to share.
4. Press the **Send** icon.

A rich card is added to the conversation making it easy to open the item. It’s a great way to help without leaving the conversation, which save you time.

## Create rich cards from links you paste in chat

If you use Power BI in a web browser, it’s easy to send link to a colleague.

1. Open a report in the Power BI service in the browser, and copy the link. 
2. Start a conversation and paste the link.
3. A rich card is automatically created.
4. Press the **Send** icon.

## Next steps

[Create reports from data you have in Microsoft Teams](business-user-teams-create-reports.md)
[Use data to make better meetings in Microsoft Teams](business-user-teams-data.md)

Commit message:

ms teams data culture, consolidate share

powerbi-docs/consumer/business-user-teams-share-data.md, after:

---
title: Lead data-driven discussions in Microsoft Teams
description: Sharing data with your team is important and easy with Power BI in Teams.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: mihart, lukaszp
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-explore
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 09/16/2021
LocalizationGroup: Get started

---

# Lead data-driven discussions in Microsoft Teams

[!INCLUDE[consumer-appliesto-ynny](../includes/consumer-appliesto-ynny.md)]

Data helps everyone get on the same page before important decisions. Sharing data with your team is important and easy with Power BI in Microsoft Teams.

## Share with your channels, chats, and meetings

1. Open the channel, chat, or meeting where you’d like to share.
4. Select the **+ Add a tab** button and add the Power BI tab.
3. Pick the Power BI item you’d like to share.
4. Select **Save**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-power-bi-save-tab.png" alt-text="Select Save to add this report or scorecard to the meeting tab.":::

This works in channels, meetings, and even in chats.

### Give team members permission

Make sure your team has permission to the report or scorecard by sharing it with them.

1. Open the item in Power BI in Teams, or in the Power BI service, and select **File** > **Manage Permissions**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/power-bi-teams-file-manage-permissions.png" alt-text="Select File > Manage permissions to add names.":::

    If you don't see this option, you may not have permission to share the item. If not, again, don’t worry. The attendees can request access themselves when they try to view the report.

1. Select **Direct access**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/power-bi-teams-direct-access.png" alt-text="Select the Direct access option.":::

1. Select **Add user**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/power-bi-teams-add-user.png" alt-text="Screenshot of selecting Add user.":::

1. Add the names of your colleagues. Decide what permissions you want them to have, whether to send them an email, and select **Grant access**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/power-bi-teams-grant-access.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Grant people access dialog.":::

1. Back in Teams, select **Save** to finish adding the report or scorecard to the meeting as a tab.



## Chat about data with rich links and cards

When discussing data, it’s important that your colleagues can open the underlying data to see and explore trends. This helps them answer questions and understand the full context of requests you’re making. It’s also an easy way to encourage more use of data in decision making.

### Discussing data is easy

1. Open a report in the Power BI app in Teams, or in the Power BI service.
2. (Optionally) You can select a specific data visualization, if you want.
3. Select **Chat in Teams**.
4. Send a message to a channel where you work with your team.

The link will include the full context of what data you were looking at, including the page, visual, any filters applied. When your colleagues open the link, they quickly see the data you’re referring to.

### Quickly send your colleagues links to reports

1. In the Teams channel or chat, start a new conversation.
2. In the command bar for the editor, select **… Messaging extensions** and pick or search for Power BI.
3. Pick or search for the content you want to share.
4. Press the **Send** icon.

A rich card is added to the conversation making it easy to open the item. It’s a great way to help without leaving the conversation, which save you time.

## Create rich cards from links you paste in chat

If you use Power BI in a web browser, it’s easy to send link to a colleague.

1. Open a report in the Power BI service in the browser, and copy the link. 
2. Start a conversation and paste the link.
3. A rich card is automatically created.
4. Press the **Send** icon.

## Next steps

[Create reports from data you have in Microsoft Teams](business-user-teams-create-reports.md)
[Use data to make better meetings in Microsoft Teams](business-user-teams-data.md)
