powerbi-docs/consumer/business-user-teams-data.md, before:

---
title: Use data to make better meetings in Microsoft Teams
description: Use Power BI in meetings to help keep important data top of mind.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: mihart, lukaszp
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-explore
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 09/02/2021
LocalizationGroup: Get started

---

# Use data to make better meetings in Microsoft Teams

[!INCLUDE[consumer-appliesto-ynny](../includes/consumer-appliesto-ynny.md)]

Keeping everyone on track towards shared objectives and what matters is easier when you use data, trends, and metrics to show the impact of the work you and your team are doing.

It’s easy to use Power BI in meetings to help keep important data top of mind. It helps everyone know which data is the most important, and builds skills that help your team make agile decisions based on your progress towards objectives. By staying focused on driving towards measurable outcomes, your team gains a sense of the positive impact their work is having.

Here's how you can use data before, during, and after your meetings.

- **Before the meeting**, add the reports and scorecards directly to the meeting invite so everyone has access to them. 
- **During the meeting**, open and present these from the calendar. You can even use chat to share more reports and scorecards, or to quickly find the right data to answer questions raised in the meeting. 
- **After the meeting**, send a summary with key results that were discussed and actions the team decided to take to help achieve the desired outcomes.

## Data-driven questions to ask

Here are some questions you can use in your meeting agenda to jump start discussion and determine the best actions to take to achieve your desired outcomes:

- Are we making progress toward our object as quickly as we expected to?
- What actions can we take in the next week or month that are most likely to move these numbers?
- What numbers can we start tracking to get a better sense of if we’re making progress towards our desired outcomes?

Review your data weekly, or at least monthly, to get in the habit of asking questions, discussing the best actions to take in the next week or two, and helping the team learn to leverage the data as they plan their work.

## Add Power BI to a meeting

Here's how to add a Power BI report or scorecard to a meeting.

1. Create the meeting and invite others.
2. Send the meeting invite.
3. Select **Edit** to open the meeting in the calendar. You only see the option to edit if you're the meeting organizer.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-calendar-edit.png" alt-text="Edit the calendar item.":::

4. Select the **+ Add a tab** button and add the Power BI tab to the meeting.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-invite-plus-sign.png" alt-text="Select the plus sign + to add a tab.":::

5. Navigate to a report or scorecard and select it.
1. If you need to share it with meeting attendees, select **Make sure this team has been given access to this report in Power BI**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-power-bi-report-tab.png" alt-text="Make sure this team has been given access to this report in Power BI.":::

    a. The report opens in the Power BI service. Select **Share** and add the names of the meeting attendees.
    a. Copy the link to provide everyone with permission to view the report.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/service-share-report-link.png" alt-text="Share the report in the Power BI service.":::

    If you can’t give permission, don’t worry. The attendees can request access when they try to view the report.

1. Select **Save** to finish adding the report or scorecard to the meeting.

1. Add an agenda item to the meeting to review and discuss the data.

## Before the meeting

It's a good idea to review your data in Power BI before a meeting.

1. Open the meeting from the calendar.
2. Open the Power BI tab that has the report or scorecard.
3. Review the report or scorecard.

Consider setting a reminder for your meeting so attendees can also pre-read the data before the meeting. This helps everyone be up with the latest data, and improves the discussion during the meeting.

## During the meeting

When you’re in a meeting, data can help guide the discussion or answer questions raised by attendees. It’s easy to present data in Power BI during the meeting, share links to data with meeting attendees, and even find data that can answer questions.

1. After joining the meeting, navigate to the Teams window.
2. Open the calendar in Teams.
3. Select **Edit** to open the meeting in the calendar.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-calendar-edit.png" alt-text="Edit the calendar item.":::

    As the organizer, you're the only one who can edit it.

4. Navigate to the Power BI tab in the meeting.
5. Use the meeting window to present your screen.

### Capture specific visuals that are important for everyone to see

1. View the report in the Power BI app in Teams.
2. Select the visual.
3. Select **Copy visual as image** to copy the visual.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-power-bi-copy-visual.png" alt-text="Select Copy visual as image.":::

4. Paste the visual into the meeting chat.

### Share a link to Power BI reports or scorecards

You can share a link in the chat window to a report or scorecard.

1. View the report or scorecard in the Power BI service.
1. Select **Share** and add the names of the meeting attendees.
1. Copy the link to provide everyone with permission to view the report.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/service-share-report-link.png" alt-text="Share the report in the Power BI service.":::

1. Paste the link in the meeting chat.

    If you can’t give permission, don’t worry. The attendees can request access when they try to view the report.

### Find data to answer questions

1. Open the meeting chat.
2. Select **Messaging extensions (...)**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-chat-meeting-messaging-extensions.png" alt-text="Select Messaging extensions (...).":::

4. Select **Power BI**.
5. Search for content, or select from your list of recent items.
6. Pick a Power BI item.
7. Select **Send**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-power-bi-meeting-chat-send.png" alt-text="Select Send to send the message in chat.":::

1. Select **Open**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-power-bi-meeting-chat-open.png" alt-text="Select Open to open the message in chat.":::

## After the meeting

It’s useful to share a summary of the most important data points discussed and the actions the team will take to help achieve outcomes. If you captured visuals during the meeting in chat, you can pull those into a meeting summary post in chat or a follow-up message.

## Next steps

[Use Power BI goals to improve results in Microsoft Teams](business-user-teams-goals.md)

Commit message:

Added some fixes in line.
Several meta comments.  
1. I changed share to "Manage Permissions" since I think it's cleaner (no strange copy link issues). Needs a picture. 
2. Added chat in teams, need a picture.
3. added after meeting actions

We should consider if we try to explain 'metrics' in this topic... I changed references to 'numbers' to metrics. Open to changing it back. But numbers felt a little too much like jargon that some might not understand.

powerbi-docs/consumer/business-user-teams-data.md, after:

---
title: Use data to make better meetings in Microsoft Teams
description: Use Power BI in meetings to help keep important data top of mind.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: mihart, lukaszp
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-explore
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 09/02/2021
LocalizationGroup: Get started

---

# Use data to make better meetings in Microsoft Teams

[!INCLUDE[consumer-appliesto-ynny](../includes/consumer-appliesto-ynny.md)]

Keeping everyone on track towards shared objectives and what matters is easier when you use data, trends, and metrics to show the impact of the work you and your team are doing.

It’s easy to use Power BI in meetings to help keep important data top of mind. It helps everyone know which data is the most important, and builds skills that help your team make agile decisions based on your progress towards objectives. By staying focused on driving towards measurable outcomes, your team gains a sense of the positive impact their work is having.

Here's how you can use data before, during, and after your meetings.

- **Before the meeting**, add the reports and scorecards directly to the meeting invite so everyone has access to them. 
- **During the meeting**, open and present these from the calendar. You can even use chat to share more reports and scorecards, or to quickly find the right data to answer questions raised in the meeting. 
- **After the meeting**, send a summary with key results that were discussed and actions the team decided to take to help achieve the desired outcomes.

## Data-driven questions to ask

Here are some questions you can use in your meeting agenda to jump start discussion and determine the best actions to take to achieve your desired outcomes:

- Are we making progress toward our objectives as quickly as we expected to?
- What actions can we take in the next week or month that are most likely to improve our metrics?
- What metrics can we start tracking to get a better sense of if we’re making progress towards our desired outcomes?

Review your data weekly, or at least monthly, to get in the habit of asking questions, discussing the best actions to take in the next week or two, and helping the team learn to leverage the data as they plan their work.

## Add Power BI to a meeting

Here's how to add a Power BI report or scorecard to a meeting.

1. Create the meeting and invite others.
2. Send the meeting invite.
3. Select **Edit** to open the meeting in the calendar. You only see the option to edit if you're the meeting organizer.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-calendar-edit.png" alt-text="Edit the calendar item.":::

4. Select the **+ Add a tab** button and add the Power BI tab to the meeting.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-invite-plus-sign.png" alt-text="Select the plus sign + to add a tab.":::

5. Navigate to a report or scorecard and select it.
1. If you need to share it with meeting attendees, select **Make sure this team has been given access to this report in Power BI**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-power-bi-report-tab.png" alt-text="Make sure this team has been given access to this report in Power BI.":::

    a. The report opens in the Power BI service. Select **File** and then **Manage Permissions** and add the names of the meeting attendees.
    
    b. Copy the link to provide everyone with permission to view the report.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/service-share-report-link.png" alt-text="Share the report in the Power BI service.":::

    If you can’t give permission, don’t worry. The attendees can request access when they try to view the report.

1. In Teams, select **Save** to finish adding the report or scorecard to the meeting.

1. Add an agenda item to the meeting to review and discuss the data.

## Before the meeting

It's a good idea to review your data in Power BI before a meeting.

1. Open the meeting from the calendar.
2. Open the Power BI tab that has the report or scorecard.
3. Review the report or scorecard.

Consider setting a reminder for your meeting so attendees can also pre-read the data before the meeting. This helps everyone be aware of the latest data, and improves the discussion during the meeting.

## During the meeting

When you’re in a meeting, data can help guide the discussion or answer questions raised by attendees. It’s easy to present data in Power BI during the meeting, share links to data with meeting attendees, and even find data that can answer questions.

1. After joining the meeting, navigate to the Teams window.
2. Open the calendar in Teams.
3. Select **Edit** to open the meeting in the calendar.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-calendar-edit.png" alt-text="Edit the calendar item.":::

    As the organizer, you're the only one who can edit it.

4. Navigate to the Power BI tab in the meeting.
5. Use the meeting window to present your screen.

### Capture specific visuals that are important for everyone to see

1. View the report in the Power BI app in Teams.
2. Select the visual.
3. Select **Copy visual as image** to copy the visual.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-power-bi-copy-visual.png" alt-text="Select Copy visual as image.":::

4. Paste the visual into the meeting chat.

### Quickly send a message in the meeting chat from a report

1. View the rpeort in the Power BI app in Teams or in the Service.
2. Select the report or a specific visual
3. Press the Chat in Teams button
4. Pick the meeting name to send to 
5. Type your message above the link that's provided
6. Press send. 

Your message will appear as part of the meeting chat and attendees can open it to see the data you wanted with the filters and slicers applied.

### Share a link to Power BI reports or scorecards

You can share a link in the chat window to a report or scorecard.

1. View the report or scorecard in the Power BI service.
1. Select **Share** and add the names of the meeting attendees.
1. Copy the link to provide everyone with permission to view the report.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/service-share-report-link.png" alt-text="Share the report in the Power BI service.":::

1. Paste the link in the meeting chat.

    If you can’t give permission, don’t worry. The attendees can request access when they try to view the report.

### Find data to answer questions

1. Open the meeting chat.
2. Select **Messaging extensions (...)**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-chat-meeting-messaging-extensions.png" alt-text="Select Messaging extensions (...).":::

4. Select **Power BI**.
5. Search for content, or select from your list of recent items.
6. Pick a Power BI item.
7. Select **Send**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-power-bi-meeting-chat-send.png" alt-text="Select Send to send the message in chat.":::

1. Select **Open**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/business-user-teams-data/teams-power-bi-meeting-chat-open.png" alt-text="Select Open to open the message in chat.":::

## After the meeting

It’s useful to share a summary of the most important data points discussed and the actions the team will take to help achieve outcomes. If you captured visuals during the meeting in chat, you can pull those into a meeting summary post in chat or a follow-up message.

Consider using key data points to create goals and track them in a scorecard. Consistently tracking progress against with a goal through a series of meetings is a great way to keep your team or project on track. 

## Next steps

[Use Power BI goals to improve results in Microsoft Teams](business-user-teams-goals.md)
