powerbi-docs/consumer/end-user-recent.md, before:

---
title: Display recently visited content in the Power BI service
description: documentation for recents in Power BI
author: mihart
ms.reviewer: mihart
ms.custom: video-G26dr2PsEpk
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-explore
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 06/09/2021
ms.author: mihart

LocalizationGroup: Common tasks
---
# **Recent** content in the Power BI service

[!INCLUDE[consumer-appliesto-yyny](../includes/consumer-appliesto-yyny.md)]

**Recent** content contains the last items you visited in the Power BI service. This include: dashboards, reports, apps, workspaces, and workbooks. When you select **Recent** from the nav bar, Power BI displays this content in descending order by date.  To change the sort order, select one of the headings and choose ascending or descending.


![Recent content window](./media/end-user-recent/power-bi-recents.png)

Notice that two items are [favorites](end-user-favorite.md), they have a star icon. And one item, the Customer Profitability Sample, is stored in [Premium capacity](end-user-license.md).

## See your five most recents

To display only your five most recently visited items, from the nav pane, select the arrow to the right of **Recent**.  From here, select content to open it. 

![Recent content flyout](./media/end-user-recent/power-bi-recent-fly-out.png)

## See all of your recent content

If you have more than five recently visited items, select **See all** to open the **Recent** screen. As we did at the beginning of this article, you can skip the flyout and open the **Recent** screen by selecting the word **Recent**, or its icon ![Recent icon](./media/end-user-recent/power-bi-icon.png), from the nav pane.

![display all recent content](./media/end-user-recent/power-bi-admin-recent.png)


## Search and sort your list of recent content

If your lists get long, [use the search field and sorting to find what you need](end-user-search-sort.md). To find out if a column can be sorted, hover to see if an arrow appears. In this example, hovering over **Type** reveals an arrow -- your recent content can be sorted alphabetically by type of content. 

![Screenshot showing both the Search field and the sort arrow](./media/end-user-recent/power-bi-recent-sort-search.png)

Watch Amanda demonstrate how the Power BI service **Recent** content lists are populated, then follow the step-by-step instructions below the video to try it out yourself.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/G26dr2PsEpk" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> [!NOTE]
> This video uses an older version of the Power BI service.

<!--
## Actions available from the **Recent** content list
The actions available to you will depend on the settings assigned by the content *designer*. Some of your options may include:
* Select the star icon to [favorite a dashboard, report, or app](end-user-favorite.md) ![star icon](./media/end-user-shared-with-me/power-bi-star-icon.png).
* Some dashboards and reports can be re-shared  ![share icon](./media/end-user-shared-with-me/power-bi-share-icon-new.png).
* [Open the report in Excel](end-user-export.md) ![export to Excel icon](./media/end-user-shared-with-me/power-bi-excel.png) 
* [View insights](end-user-insights.md) that Power BI finds in the data ![insights icon](./media/end-user-shared-with-me/power-bi-insights.png). -->





## Next steps
[Power BI service apps](end-user-apps.md)

More questions? [Try the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)

Commit message:

Note aded for videos and costum tag removed for non video

powerbi-docs/consumer/end-user-recent.md, after:

---
title: Display recently visited content in the Power BI service
description: documentation for recents in Power BI
author: mihart
ms.reviewer: mihart
ms.custom: video-G26dr2PsEpk
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-explore
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 06/09/2021
ms.author: mihart

LocalizationGroup: Common tasks
---
# **Recent** content in the Power BI service

[!INCLUDE[consumer-appliesto-yyny](../includes/consumer-appliesto-yyny.md)]

**Recent** content contains the last items you visited in the Power BI service. This include: dashboards, reports, apps, workspaces, and workbooks. When you select **Recent** from the nav bar, Power BI displays this content in descending order by date.  To change the sort order, select one of the headings and choose ascending or descending.


![Recent content window](./media/end-user-recent/power-bi-recents.png)

Notice that two items are [favorites](end-user-favorite.md), they have a star icon. And one item, the Customer Profitability Sample, is stored in [Premium capacity](end-user-license.md).

## See your five most recents

To display only your five most recently visited items, from the nav pane, select the arrow to the right of **Recent**.  From here, select content to open it. 

![Recent content flyout](./media/end-user-recent/power-bi-recent-fly-out.png)

## See all of your recent content

If you have more than five recently visited items, select **See all** to open the **Recent** screen. As we did at the beginning of this article, you can skip the flyout and open the **Recent** screen by selecting the word **Recent**, or its icon ![Recent icon](./media/end-user-recent/power-bi-icon.png), from the nav pane.

![display all recent content](./media/end-user-recent/power-bi-admin-recent.png)


## Search and sort your list of recent content

If your lists get long, [use the search field and sorting to find what you need](end-user-search-sort.md). To find out if a column can be sorted, hover to see if an arrow appears. In this example, hovering over **Type** reveals an arrow -- your recent content can be sorted alphabetically by type of content. 

![Screenshot showing both the Search field and the sort arrow](./media/end-user-recent/power-bi-recent-sort-search.png)

Watch Amanda demonstrate how the Power BI service **Recent** content lists are populated, then follow the step-by-step instructions below the video to try it out yourself.

> [!NOTE]  
> This video might use earlier versions of Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/G26dr2PsEpk" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> [!NOTE]
> This video uses an older version of the Power BI service.

<!--
## Actions available from the **Recent** content list
The actions available to you will depend on the settings assigned by the content *designer*. Some of your options may include:
* Select the star icon to [favorite a dashboard, report, or app](end-user-favorite.md) ![star icon](./media/end-user-shared-with-me/power-bi-star-icon.png).
* Some dashboards and reports can be re-shared  ![share icon](./media/end-user-shared-with-me/power-bi-share-icon-new.png).
* [Open the report in Excel](end-user-export.md) ![export to Excel icon](./media/end-user-shared-with-me/power-bi-excel.png) 
* [View insights](end-user-insights.md) that Power BI finds in the data ![insights icon](./media/end-user-shared-with-me/power-bi-insights.png). -->





## Next steps
[Power BI service apps](end-user-apps.md)

More questions? [Try the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
