---
title: "Use Explore (preview) in the Power BI service"
description: In this article, you learn how to explore your data in the Power BI service.
author: julcsc
ms.author: juliacawthra
ms.reviewer: kfollis
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-explore
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 04/15/2025
no-loc: [Copilot]
ms.collection: ce-skilling-ai-copilot
---

# Use Explore (preview) in the Power BI service

Explore (preview) in the Power BI service is a new experience that allows you to explore your data in a focused way. It’s designed to be easy to use, so you can quickly get the answers you need without having to be a Power BI expert. You can use Explore (preview) on an existing visual to dig into the underlying data, or you can start with a blank canvas and pull in the data you want to explore.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/explore-matrix-plus-visual.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing exploring a matrix and a visual." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/explore-matrix-plus-visual.png":::

A few scenarios when you could benefit from Explore (preview) include:

- You want to see the underlying data behind a visual in a report or a Copilot-generated visual.
- You want to explore a new semantic model (dataset) to learn about it.
- You want to create a new visual or matrix from scratch, but you don’t want to create a report
- You want to explore a subset of data from a datamart query result.
- You want to explore a semantic model that you don’t have permission to edit, but you want to create a new visual or matrix from it.

Follow the steps in this article to learn how to use Explore (preview) to build a matrix or visual, customize, and save your Exploration to a workspace or as a report to share with others.

## Step 1. Navigate to the Explore (preview) experience

> [!NOTE]
> You can explore data from any supported Fabric artifact where you have **View** permission on the data, unless restricted by your tenant admin. If restricted, you can only use artifacts where you have **Build** permission. *Exception: ***Build*** permission is always required for Lake Houses.*

Explore your data from various entry points. You can start from:

- **A visual in a report**: To start exploring from a visual, select the **More options (…)** menu from a visual in a report and select **Explore this data**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/from-visual-in-report.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing exploring data from a visual in a report." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/from-visual-in-report.png":::

- **A visual generated by Copilot**: Select the **Explore this visual button**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/from-visual-by-copilot.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing exploring data from a visual generated by Copilot." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/from-visual-by-copilot.png":::

- **An artifact in a list**: For a given semantic model, report, or datamart, begin your Exploration by selecting the **More options (…)** menu from a workspace list or the data hub list view.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/from-artifact-in-list.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing exploring data from an artifact in a list." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/from-artifact-in-list.png":::

- **The ***New*** button in a workspace**: Select the **New** button at the top of a workspace, then select **Exploration**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/more-options-explore-data-b.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the New button expanding to show the Exploration (preview) option.":::

- **the Data hub details page**: Select the button on the **Discover business insights** action card.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/discover-business-insights.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Explore this data to discover business insights.":::

- **A report**: You might want to explore the underlying data behind a report. You can begin Exploration from the report **More options (…)** menu in a workspace list, or the **Explore this data** option on the report menu bar.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/explore-data-report-menu-bar.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Explore this data option on the menu bar.":::

- **A datamart**: Select the **Explore this data** button to dig into query results.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/sql-query-explore-data.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Explore this data for a SQL query.":::

## Step 2. Build your matrix or visual with Explore (preview)

Regardless of where you start from, when you launch the Explore (preview) experience, you land in the new focused view. Your data appears in the data pane, and you can edit, drag and drop, or select fields to start building a matrix or visual.

If you start from a visual, you see that visual on this page. Get a matrix of the underlying data by expanding the **Matrix** section.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/build-matrix-or-visual.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing exploring data by building a matrix or visual." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/build-matrix-or-visual.png":::

If you didn't start from a visual, you see a blank canvas with a matrix and a visual. You can drag and drop fields from the data pane to the matrix or visual, or select others to add.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/begin-Exploration.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Explore window opened." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/begin-Exploration.png":::  

> [!NOTE]
> Some users might see the data pane on the left as we experiment with placement to optimize the experience.

If you prefer, you can swap the layout to show the visual and matrix side by side instead of one on top of the other by using the layout buttons in the top right to adjust the orientation.  

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/change-layout-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing switching the layout to side by side." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/change-layout-view.png":::

You can also change the **visual type** by using the options in the visual gallery. If you don’t pick your own visual type, Explore (preview) autoselects the type that best suits your selected data. To turn off this autoselection, deselect the **lightening bolt** icon to the right of the visual gallery. To adjust which fields are located on the rows and columns, use the field wells in the **Rearrange data** section of the data pane. You only see the field wells for the outlined selection (that is, the matrix or the visual). Select the other side to see its field wells.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/rearrange-data-visual-black-outline.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing modifying the section with the black border." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/rearrange-data-visual-black-outline.png":::

The matrix and visual are linked. So as you add fields, sort, and drill into to one, the other one is updated automatically, as long as the visual can accurately reflect the sort or drill state.

For example, you might have a visual with a date hierarchy and you want to drill down to quarters:

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/drill-down-next-level.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing drilling down to the next level in the chart." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/drill-down-next-level.png":::

When you drill down on the visual, the matrix updates accordingly.

> [!NOTE]
> Some interactions between the matrix and visual aren't currently supported. For example, if you drill down on a visual, the matrix might not update to reflect the drill state. The matrix and visual are linked, but if you notice that your visual doesn't reflect the drill state you applied to your matrix, it means that the interaction isn't currently supported.

## Step 3. Apply filters to your Exploration

As you build out your Exploration, you can also take advantage of a new filtering experience. Select the **Add filter** button on the top left to quickly add filters on the fields already in your visual or pick from any fields in your semantic model in the **All data** section.  

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/add-new-filter-trip-purpose-1.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing adding a new filter for trip purpose." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/add-new-filter-trip-purpose-1.png":::

In this Exploration experience, the filters are added as pills at the top of view, so you can easily see what the current filter state is and quickly modify it.  

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/apply-filter-trip-purpose-honeymoon-2.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing applying the trip purpose filter." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/apply-filter-trip-purpose-honeymoon-2.png":::

## Step 4. Save your Exploration

When you’re done exploring, you can save your Exploration to a workspace or save it as a report.

- **Save to a workspace**: Select the **Save** button in the upper-left corner. In the dialog, you can name the Exploration, pick a workspace to save it to, and add a sensitivity label, if applicable. This saves your current canvas layout (horizontal or vertical) of the Exploration as well.

   > [!NOTE]
   > You can only save Explorations to workspaces in a Premium capacity at this time.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/save-Exploration.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing naming the Exploration and adding it to a workspace." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/save-Exploration.png":::

- **Save as a report**: Select **Save**, then choose **Save as report**. This saves your Exploration as a single page report matching the layout when saved. For example, if you're viewing both the matrix and the visual, you get one page with a matrix on the top half and the visual on the bottom half of the page.

   > [!NOTE]
   > You need **Build** permission on the underlying semantic model to use this feature.

## Step 5. Share your Exploration with others

If you want to share your Exploration with others, select the **Share** button in the upper-right corner. Select the people who can view your Exploration, such as **People in your organization can view**, **People with existing access**, or **Specific people**. Choose more permissions such as **share** or **edit**. Add your recipients' email addresses and an optional message, then **Send**.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You should be immediately prompted to share the underlying semantic model so the recipients can view the contents of your Exploration. If you're not prompted, you can manually [share the semantic model](../connect-data/service-datasets-share.md) with read permissions. For reports, sharing the underlying semantic model is done automatically.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/create-send-link.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing selecting People in your organization can view.":::

You can send via email or Teams, or select **Copy link** to send it another way.

## Permissions, requirements, and limitations

To fully benefit from Explore (preview), be aware of the following permissions, requirements, and limitations.

### Permissions and requirements

Explore (preview) requires the following permissions and considerations:

- **To access Explore (preview)**:
  - By default, people with **View** permissions on the data can access Explore (preview).
  - Admins can limit the experience to people with **Build** permissions if they choose by disabling the **Users with view permission can launch Explore** setting in the admin portal.
  - Exception: for Lake Houses, Build permission is always required.

    :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/disable-launch-explore.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how admins can limit to people with build permissions in the admin portal." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/disable-launch-explore.png":::

  - Semantic model owners can also limit exploration of their models to people with **Build** permissions on an artifact-by-artifact basis. They can do this by disabling the **Allow users with view permissions** setting in the Explorations section of semantic model settings.

    :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/disable-users-view-permissions.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how admins can limit to people with build permissions in the Explorations section." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/disable-users-view-permissions.png":::

- **To save an Exploration** to a workspace:
  - The destination workspace must be in a Premium capacity.
  - Changing a sensitivity label on a semantic model doesn't currently propagate down to the Exploration that you create for it.
  - If you save to **My workspace**, you might need to refresh your page to see the newly saved Exploration artifact.
- **To save an Exploration as a report**:
  - You need **Build** permissions on the underlying semantic model.
- **To share an Exploration**:
  - You need a Power BI Pro or Premium Per User (PPU) license.
  - You need to grant **View** permissions to the underlying semantic model so your recipients can view the Exploration.
    - If you skip this step, your recipients have to request permissions to view the Exploration.
  - Explorations aren't currently shown in lineage view as related to the semantic model.

### Limitations

Explore (preview) has some limitations. Here are some important things to keep in mind.

- Not supported in the Power BI mobile app
- No entry point from artifacts in the list view of semantic models and reports on the Power BI service Home
- Custom visuals aren't supported
- The following native visuals aren't supported:
  - Matrix
  - Slicers
  - Q&A
  - Smart narratives
  - Metrics
  - Paginated reports
  - Power Apps
  - Power Automate
- Not currently supported for streaming datasets
- Known issue when you attempt to save an Exploration from the Datamart SQL editor entry point

## Related content

- [Personalize visuals in a report](end-user-personalize-visuals.md)
- [Licensing for Power BI](../service-admin/power-bi-licensing.md)
- [Capacities and SKUs in Power BI](../service-admin/premium-capacities.md)
