powerbi-docs/connect-data/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management.md, before:

---
title: Connect to Azure Cost Management data in Power BI Desktop
description: Easily connect to Azure and gain insights about your Azure cost and usage with Power BI Desktop
author: davidiseminger
ms.author: davidi
ms.reviewer: ''
ms.custom:
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-data-sources
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 07/08/2021
LocalizationGroup: Connect to data
---

# Create visuals and reports with the Azure Cost Management connector in Power BI Desktop

You can use the Azure Cost Management connector for Power BI Desktop to make powerful, customized visualizations and reports that help you better understand your Azure spend. The Azure Cost Management connector currently supports customers with a [Microsoft Customer Agreement](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/purchase-options/microsoft-customer-agreement/) or an [Enterprise Agreement (EA)](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/enterprise-agreement/).  

The Azure Cost Management connector uses OAuth 2.0 for authentication with Azure and identifies users who are going to use the connector. Tokens generated in this process are valid for a specific period. Power BI preserves the token for the next login. OAuth 2.0, is a standard for the process that goes on behind the scenes to ensure the secure handling of these permissions. To connect, you must use an [Enterprise Administrator](/azure/billing/billing-understand-ea-roles) account for Enterprise Agreements, or have [appropriate permissions](/microsoft-365/commerce/billing-and-payments/manage-billing-profiles?view=o365-worldwide) at the billing account or billing profile levels for Microsoft Customer Agreements. 

> [!NOTE]
> This connector replaces the previously available [Azure Consumption Insights and Azure Cost Management (Beta)](desktop-connect-azure-consumption-insights.md) connectors. Any reports created with the previous connector must be recreated using this connector.

## Connect using Azure Cost Management

To use the **Azure Cost Management connector** in Power BI Desktop, take the following steps:

1.	In the **Home** ribbon, select **Get Data**.
2.	Select **Azure** from the list of data categories.
3.	Select **Azure Cost Management**.

    ![Get data](media/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management/azure-cost-management-00b.png)

4. In the dialog that appears, enter either your **Billing Profile ID** for **Microsoft Customer Agreements**, or your **Enrollment Number** for **Enterprise Agreements (EA)**. 


## Connect to a Microsoft Customer Agreement account 

This section describes the steps necessary to connect to a Microsoft Customer Agreement account.

### Connect to a billing account

To connect to a billing account, you need to retrieve your **Billing account ID** from the Azure portal:

1.	In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/), navigate to **Cost Management + Billing**.
2.	Select your Billing profile. 
3.	Under **Settings** in the menu, select **Properties** in the sidebar.
4.	Under **Billing profile**, copy the **ID**. 
    :::image type="content" source="media/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management/product-updates-02.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Cost management billing profile":::
5.	For **Choose Scope**, select **Manually Input Scope** and input the connection string as shown in the example below, replacing *{billingAccountId}* with the data copied from the previous steps. 
    ```/providers/Microsoft.Billing/billingAccounts/{billingAccountId}```
6.	Enter the number of months and select **OK**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management/product-updates-03.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Cost Management with number of months input":::

7.	When prompted, sign in with your Azure user account and password. You must have access to the Billing account scope to successfully access the billing data.

### Connect to a billing profile

To connect to a **billing profile**, you must retrieve your **Billing profile ID** and **Billing account ID** from the Azure portal:

1.	In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/), navigate to **Cost Management + Billing**.
2.	Select your Billing profile. 
3.	Under **Settings** in the menu, select **Properties** in the sidebar.
4.	Under **Billing profile**, copy the **ID**. 
5.  Under **Billing account**, copy the **ID**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management/azure-cost-management-updates-04.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Cost Management billing account information":::

6.	For **Choose Scope**, select **Manually Input Scope** and input the connection string as shown in the example below, replacing *{billingAccountId}* and *{billingProfileId}* with the data copied from the previous steps. 

    ```/providers/Microsoft.Billing/billingAccounts/{billingAccountId}/billingProfiles/{billingProfileId}```

7.	Enter the number of months and select **OK**.

8.  When prompted, sign in with your Azure user account and password. You must have access to the Billing profile to successfully access the billing profile data. 


## Connect to an Enterprise Agreement account

To connect with an Enterprise Agreement (EA) account, you can get your enrollment ID from the Azure portal:

1.	In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/), navigate to **Cost Management + Billing**.
2.	Select your billing account.
3.	On the **Overview** menu, copy the **Billing account ID**.
4.	For **Choose Scope**, select **Enrollment Number** and paste the billing account ID from the previous step. 
5.	Enter the number of months and then select **OK**.

    ![Screenshot shows the Azure Cost Management properties with a scope of Enrollment number.](media/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management/azure-cost-management-01b.png)

6.	When prompted, sign in with your Azure user account and password. You must use an Enterprise Administrator account for Enterprise Agreements.

## Data available through the connector

Once you successfully authenticate, a **Navigator** window appears with the following available data tables:

| **Table** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| **Balance summary** | Summary of the balance for Enterprise Agreements (EA). |
| **Billing events** | Event log of new invoices, credit purchases, etc. Microsoft Customer Agreement only. |
| **Budgets** | Budget details to view actual costs or usage against existing budget targets. |
| **Charges** | A month-level summary of Azure usage, Marketplace charges, and charges billed separately. Microsoft Customer Agreement only. |
| **Credit lots** | Azure credit lot purchase details for the provided billing profile. Microsoft Customer Agreement only. |
| **Pricesheets** | Applicable meter rates for the provided billing profile or EA enrollment. |
| **RI charges** | Charges associated to your Reserved Instances over the last 24 months. This table is in the process of being deprecated, please use RI transactions |
| **RI recommendations (shared)** | Reserved Instance purchase recommendations based on all your subscription usage trends for the last 30 days. |
| **RI recommendations (single)** | Reserved Instance purchase recommendations based on your single subscription usage trends for the last 30 days. |
| **RI transactions** | List of transactions for reserved instances on billing account scope. |
| **RI usage details** | Consumption details for your existing Reserved Instances over the last month. |
| **RI usage summary** | Daily Azure reservation usage percentage. |
| **Usage details** | A breakdown of consumed quantities and estimated charges for the given billing profile on EA enrollment. |
| **Usage details amortized** | A breakdown of consumed quantities and estimated amortized charges for the given billing profile on EA enrollment. |

You can select a table to see a preview dialog. You can select one or more tables by selecting the boxes beside their name and then select **Load**.

![Screenshot shows the Navigator dialog box.](media/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management/azure-cost-management-01c.png)

When you select **Load**, the data is loaded into Power BI Desktop. 

When the data you selected is loaded, the data tables and fields are shown in the **Fields** pane.

## Limitations and considerations

You might receive a *400 bad request* from the **RI usage details** when you try to refresh the data if you've chosen date parameter greater than three months. To mitigate the error, take the following steps:

1.	In Power BI Desktop, select **Home > Transform data**.
2.	In Power Query Editor, select the **RI usage details** dataset and select **Advanced Editor**.
3.	Update the Power Query code as shown in the following paragraph(s), which will split the calls into three-month chunks. Make sure you note and retain your enrollment number, or billing account/billing profile ID.
    
    For **EA** use the following code update:
    
    ```
    let
        enrollmentNumber = "<<Enrollment Number>>",
        optionalParameters1 = [startBillingDataWindow = "-9", endBillingDataWindow = "-6"],
        source1 = AzureCostManagement.Tables("Enrollment Number", enrollmentNumber, 5, optionalParameters1),
        riusagedetails1 = source1{[Key="riusagedetails"]}[Data],
        optionalParameters2 = [startBillingDataWindow = "-6", endBillingDataWindow = "-3"],
        source2 = AzureCostManagement.Tables("Enrollment Number", enrollmentNumber, 5, optionalParameters2),    
        riusagedetails2 = source2{[Key="riusagedetails"]}[Data],
        riusagedetails = Table.Combine({riusagedetails1, riusagedetails2})
    in
        riusagedetails
    ```
    
    For **Microsoft Customer Agreements** use the following update:
    
    ```
    let
        billingProfileId = "<<Billing Profile Id>>",
        optionalParameters1 = [startBillingDataWindow = "-9", endBillingDataWindow = "-6"],
        source1 = AzureCostManagement.Tables("Billing Profile Id", billingProfileId, 5, optionalParameters1),
        riusagedetails1 = source1{[Key="riusagedetails"]}[Data],
        optionalParameters2 = [startBillingDataWindow = "-6", endBillingDataWindow = "-3"],
        source2 = AzureCostManagement.Tables("Billing Profile Id", billingProfileId, 5, optionalParameters2),    
        riusagedetails2 = source2{[Key="riusagedetails"]}[Data],
        riusagedetails = Table.Combine({riusagedetails1, riusagedetails2})
    in
        riusagedetails
    
    ```
4.	Once you've updated the code with the appropriate update from the previous step, select **Done** and then select **Close & Apply**. 


## Next steps

You can connect to many different data sources using Power BI Desktop. For more information, see the following articles:

* [What is Power BI Desktop?](../fundamentals/desktop-what-is-desktop.md)
* [Data Sources in Power BI Desktop](desktop-data-sources.md)
* [Shape and Combine Data with Power BI Desktop](desktop-shape-and-combine-data.md)
* [Connect to Excel workbooks in Power BI Desktop](desktop-connect-excel.md)   
* [Enter data directly into Power BI Desktop](desktop-enter-data-directly-into-desktop.md)

Commit message:

update limitation for O365 GCC for Azure Cost Mgmt

powerbi-docs/connect-data/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management.md, after:

---
title: Connect to Azure Cost Management data in Power BI Desktop
description: Easily connect to Azure and gain insights about your Azure cost and usage with Power BI Desktop
author: davidiseminger
ms.author: davidi
ms.reviewer: ''
ms.custom:
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-data-sources
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 07/21/2021
LocalizationGroup: Connect to data
---

# Create visuals and reports with the Azure Cost Management connector in Power BI Desktop

You can use the Azure Cost Management connector for Power BI Desktop to make powerful, customized visualizations and reports that help you better understand your Azure spend. The Azure Cost Management connector currently supports customers with a [Microsoft Customer Agreement](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/purchase-options/microsoft-customer-agreement/) or an [Enterprise Agreement (EA)](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/enterprise-agreement/).  

The Azure Cost Management connector uses OAuth 2.0 for authentication with Azure and identifies users who are going to use the connector. Tokens generated in this process are valid for a specific period. Power BI preserves the token for the next login. OAuth 2.0, is a standard for the process that goes on behind the scenes to ensure the secure handling of these permissions. To connect, you must use an [Enterprise Administrator](/azure/billing/billing-understand-ea-roles) account for Enterprise Agreements, or have [appropriate permissions](/microsoft-365/commerce/billing-and-payments/manage-billing-profiles?view=o365-worldwide) at the billing account or billing profile levels for Microsoft Customer Agreements. 

> [!NOTE]
> This connector replaces the previously available [Azure Consumption Insights and Azure Cost Management (Beta)](desktop-connect-azure-consumption-insights.md) connectors. Any reports created with the previous connector must be recreated using this connector.

## Connect using Azure Cost Management

To use the **Azure Cost Management connector** in Power BI Desktop, take the following steps:

1.	In the **Home** ribbon, select **Get Data**.
2.	Select **Azure** from the list of data categories.
3.	Select **Azure Cost Management**.

    ![Get data](media/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management/azure-cost-management-00b.png)

4. In the dialog that appears, enter either your **Billing Profile ID** for **Microsoft Customer Agreements**, or your **Enrollment Number** for **Enterprise Agreements (EA)**. 


## Connect to a Microsoft Customer Agreement account 

This section describes the steps necessary to connect to a Microsoft Customer Agreement account.

### Connect to a billing account

To connect to a billing account, you need to retrieve your **Billing account ID** from the Azure portal:

1.	In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/), navigate to **Cost Management + Billing**.
2.	Select your Billing profile. 
3.	Under **Settings** in the menu, select **Properties** in the sidebar.
4.	Under **Billing profile**, copy the **ID**. 
    :::image type="content" source="media/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management/product-updates-02.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Cost management billing profile":::
5.	For **Choose Scope**, select **Manually Input Scope** and input the connection string as shown in the example below, replacing *{billingAccountId}* with the data copied from the previous steps. 
    ```/providers/Microsoft.Billing/billingAccounts/{billingAccountId}```
6.	Enter the number of months and select **OK**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management/product-updates-03.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Cost Management with number of months input":::

7.	When prompted, sign in with your Azure user account and password. You must have access to the Billing account scope to successfully access the billing data.

### Connect to a billing profile

To connect to a **billing profile**, you must retrieve your **Billing profile ID** and **Billing account ID** from the Azure portal:

1.	In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/), navigate to **Cost Management + Billing**.
2.	Select your Billing profile. 
3.	Under **Settings** in the menu, select **Properties** in the sidebar.
4.	Under **Billing profile**, copy the **ID**. 
5.  Under **Billing account**, copy the **ID**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management/azure-cost-management-updates-04.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Cost Management billing account information":::

6.	For **Choose Scope**, select **Manually Input Scope** and input the connection string as shown in the example below, replacing *{billingAccountId}* and *{billingProfileId}* with the data copied from the previous steps. 

    ```/providers/Microsoft.Billing/billingAccounts/{billingAccountId}/billingProfiles/{billingProfileId}```

7.	Enter the number of months and select **OK**.

8.  When prompted, sign in with your Azure user account and password. You must have access to the Billing profile to successfully access the billing profile data. 


## Connect to an Enterprise Agreement account

To connect with an Enterprise Agreement (EA) account, you can get your enrollment ID from the Azure portal:

1.	In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/), navigate to **Cost Management + Billing**.
2.	Select your billing account.
3.	On the **Overview** menu, copy the **Billing account ID**.
4.	For **Choose Scope**, select **Enrollment Number** and paste the billing account ID from the previous step. 
5.	Enter the number of months and then select **OK**.

    ![Screenshot shows the Azure Cost Management properties with a scope of Enrollment number.](media/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management/azure-cost-management-01b.png)

6.	When prompted, sign in with your Azure user account and password. You must use an Enterprise Administrator account for Enterprise Agreements.

## Data available through the connector

Once you successfully authenticate, a **Navigator** window appears with the following available data tables:

| **Table** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| **Balance summary** | Summary of the balance for Enterprise Agreements (EA). |
| **Billing events** | Event log of new invoices, credit purchases, etc. Microsoft Customer Agreement only. |
| **Budgets** | Budget details to view actual costs or usage against existing budget targets. |
| **Charges** | A month-level summary of Azure usage, Marketplace charges, and charges billed separately. Microsoft Customer Agreement only. |
| **Credit lots** | Azure credit lot purchase details for the provided billing profile. Microsoft Customer Agreement only. |
| **Pricesheets** | Applicable meter rates for the provided billing profile or EA enrollment. |
| **RI charges** | Charges associated to your Reserved Instances over the last 24 months. This table is in the process of being deprecated, please use RI transactions |
| **RI recommendations (shared)** | Reserved Instance purchase recommendations based on all your subscription usage trends for the last 30 days. |
| **RI recommendations (single)** | Reserved Instance purchase recommendations based on your single subscription usage trends for the last 30 days. |
| **RI transactions** | List of transactions for reserved instances on billing account scope. |
| **RI usage details** | Consumption details for your existing Reserved Instances over the last month. |
| **RI usage summary** | Daily Azure reservation usage percentage. |
| **Usage details** | A breakdown of consumed quantities and estimated charges for the given billing profile on EA enrollment. |
| **Usage details amortized** | A breakdown of consumed quantities and estimated amortized charges for the given billing profile on EA enrollment. |

You can select a table to see a preview dialog. You can select one or more tables by selecting the boxes beside their name and then select **Load**.

![Screenshot shows the Navigator dialog box.](media/desktop-connect-azure-cost-management/azure-cost-management-01c.png)

When you select **Load**, the data is loaded into Power BI Desktop. 

When the data you selected is loaded, the data tables and fields are shown in the **Fields** pane.

## Limitations and considerations

The following limitations and considerations apply to the Azure Cost Management data connector:

* The Azure Cost Managagement data connector does not work with Office 365 GCC customer accounts.

You might receive a *400 bad request* from the **RI usage details** when you try to refresh the data if you've chosen date parameter greater than three months. To mitigate the error, take the following steps:

1.	In Power BI Desktop, select **Home > Transform data**.
2.	In Power Query Editor, select the **RI usage details** dataset and select **Advanced Editor**.
3.	Update the Power Query code as shown in the following paragraph(s), which will split the calls into three-month chunks. Make sure you note and retain your enrollment number, or billing account/billing profile ID.
    
    For **EA** use the following code update:
    
    ```
    let
        enrollmentNumber = "<<Enrollment Number>>",
        optionalParameters1 = [startBillingDataWindow = "-9", endBillingDataWindow = "-6"],
        source1 = AzureCostManagement.Tables("Enrollment Number", enrollmentNumber, 5, optionalParameters1),
        riusagedetails1 = source1{[Key="riusagedetails"]}[Data],
        optionalParameters2 = [startBillingDataWindow = "-6", endBillingDataWindow = "-3"],
        source2 = AzureCostManagement.Tables("Enrollment Number", enrollmentNumber, 5, optionalParameters2),    
        riusagedetails2 = source2{[Key="riusagedetails"]}[Data],
        riusagedetails = Table.Combine({riusagedetails1, riusagedetails2})
    in
        riusagedetails
    ```
    
    For **Microsoft Customer Agreements** use the following update:
    
    ```
    let
        billingProfileId = "<<Billing Profile Id>>",
        optionalParameters1 = [startBillingDataWindow = "-9", endBillingDataWindow = "-6"],
        source1 = AzureCostManagement.Tables("Billing Profile Id", billingProfileId, 5, optionalParameters1),
        riusagedetails1 = source1{[Key="riusagedetails"]}[Data],
        optionalParameters2 = [startBillingDataWindow = "-6", endBillingDataWindow = "-3"],
        source2 = AzureCostManagement.Tables("Billing Profile Id", billingProfileId, 5, optionalParameters2),    
        riusagedetails2 = source2{[Key="riusagedetails"]}[Data],
        riusagedetails = Table.Combine({riusagedetails1, riusagedetails2})
    in
        riusagedetails
    
    ```
4.	Once you've updated the code with the appropriate update from the previous step, select **Done** and then select **Close & Apply**. 


## Next steps

You can connect to many different data sources using Power BI Desktop. For more information, see the following articles:

* [What is Power BI Desktop?](../fundamentals/desktop-what-is-desktop.md)
* [Data Sources in Power BI Desktop](desktop-data-sources.md)
* [Shape and Combine Data with Power BI Desktop](desktop-shape-and-combine-data.md)
* [Connect to Excel workbooks in Power BI Desktop](desktop-connect-excel.md)   
* [Enter data directly into Power BI Desktop](desktop-enter-data-directly-into-desktop.md)
