powerbi-docs/connect-data/desktop-python-scripts.md, before:

---
title: Run Python scripts in Power BI Desktop
description: Run Python scripts directly in Power BI Desktop and import the resulting datasets into a Power BI Desktop data model.
author: otarb
ms.author: otarb
ms.reviewer: ''
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-ai
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date:  11/28/2022
LocalizationGroup: Connect to data
---
# Run Python scripts in Power BI Desktop

You can run Python scripts directly in Power BI Desktop and import the resulting datasets into a Power BI Desktop data model. From this model, you can create reports and share them on the Power BI service.

## Prerequisites

- To run Python scripts in Power BI Desktop, you need to install Python on your local machine. You can download Python from the [Python website](https://www.python.org). The current Python scripting release supports Unicode characters and spaces in the installation path.

- The Power BI Python integration requires installation of the following two Python packages. In a console or shell, use the [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable) command-line tool to install the packages. The pip tool is packaged with recent Python versions.

  - [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org) is a software library for data manipulation and analysis. Pandas offers data structures and operations for manipulating numerical tables and time series. To import into Power BI, Python data must be in a [pandas data frame](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/python_pandas/python_pandas_dataframe.htm). A data frame is a two-dimensional data structure, such as a table with rows and columns.

  - [Matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org) is a plotting library for Python and its numerical mathematics extension [NumPy](https://www.numpy.org). Matplotlib provides an object-oriented API for embedding plots into general-purpose graphical user interface (GUI) applications for Python, such as Tkinter, wxPython, Qt, or GTK+.

  ```console
  pip install pandas
  pip install matplotlib
  ```

## Enable Python scripting

To enable Python scripting in Power BI:

1. In Power BI Desktop, select **File** > **Options and settings** > **Options** > **Python scripting**. The **Python script options** page appears.

   ![Screenshot that shows the Python script options for Power BI Desktop.](media/desktop-python-scripts/python-scripts-7.png)

1. If necessary, supply or edit your local Python installation path under **Detected Python home directories**. In the preceding image, the Python's installation local path is *C:\\Python*. If you have more than one local Python installation, make sure to select the one that you want to use.

1. Select **OK**.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Power BI runs scripts directly by using the *python.exe* executable from the directory you provide in **Settings**. Python distributions that require an extra step to prepare the environment, such as Conda, might fail to run. To avoid these issues, use the official Python distribution from [https://www.python.org](https://www.python.org). Another possible solution is to start Power BI Desktop from your custom Python environment prompt.

## Create a Python script

Create a script in your local Python development environment and make sure it runs successfully. To prepare and run a Python script in Power BI Desktop, there are a few limitations:

- Only pandas data frames import, so make sure the data you want to import to Power BI is represented in a data frame.
- Any Python script that runs longer than 30 minutes times out.
- Interactive calls in the Python script, such as waiting for user input, halt the script's execution.
- If you set a working directory within the Python script, you must define a full path to the working directory rather than a relative path.
- Nested tables aren't supported.

Here's a simple example Python script that imports pandas and uses a data frame:

```python
import pandas as pd
data = [['Alex',10],['Bob',12],['Clarke',13]]
df = pd.DataFrame(data,columns=['Name','Age'])
print (df)
```

When run, this script returns:

```output
     Name   Age
0    Alex  10.0
1     Bob  12.0
2  Clarke  13.0
```

## Run the script and import data

To run your Python script:

1. In the **Home** group of the Power BI Desktop ribbon, select **Get data**.

1. In the **Get Data** dialog box, select **Other** > **Python script**, and then select **Connect**. Power BI uses your latest installed Python version as the Python engine.

   ![Screenshot that shows Get Data with Python script selected.](media/desktop-python-scripts/python-scripts-1.png)

1. On the **Python script** screen, paste your Python script into the **Script** field, and select **OK**.

   ![Screenshot that shows pasting the sample Python script into the Python script dialog box.](media/desktop-python-scripts/python-scripts-6.png)

1. If the script runs successfully, the **Navigator** window appears, and you can load the data. Select the **df** table, and then select **Load**.

   ![Screenshot of the Navigator window showing data to load and use.](media/desktop-python-scripts/python-scripts-5.png)
   
Power BI imports the data, and you can use it to create visualizations and reports. To refresh the data, select **Refresh** in the **Home** group of the Power BI Desktop ribbon. When you refresh, Power BI runs the Python script again.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If Python isn't installed or identified, a warning appears. You might also get a warning if you have multiple local machine installations.
> 
> ![Screenshot of a Warning that Python isn't installed.](media/desktop-python-scripts/python-scripts-3.png)

## Related content

For more information about Python in Power BI, see:

- [Create Python visuals in Power BI Desktop](desktop-python-visuals.md)
- [Use an external Python IDE with Power BI](desktop-python-ide.md)
- [Use Python in Power Query Editor](desktop-python-in-query-editor.md)

Commit message:

Update connect-data articles with high page views - part 2

powerbi-docs/connect-data/desktop-python-scripts.md, after:

---
title: Run Python scripts in Power BI Desktop
description: Run Python scripts directly in Power BI Desktop and import the resulting datasets into a Power BI Desktop data model.
author: otarb
ms.author: otarb
ms.reviewer: ''
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-ai
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date:  08/28/2024
LocalizationGroup: Connect to data
#customer intent: As a developer, I want to learn how to run Python scripts in Power BI Desktop and import the resulting datasets into a data model so that I can create reports and share them on the Power BI service.
---
# Run Python scripts in Power BI Desktop

You can run Python scripts directly in Power BI Desktop and import the resulting datasets into a Power BI Desktop data model. From this model, you can create reports and share them on the Power BI service. This article shows you how to enable Python scripting and create a Python script that you can run to import data.

## Prerequisites

- To run Python scripts in Power BI Desktop, you need to install Python on your local machine. You can download Python from the [Python website](https://www.python.org). The current Python scripting release supports Unicode characters and spaces in the installation path.

- The Power BI Python integration requires installation of the following two Python packages. In a console or shell, use the [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable) command-line tool to install the packages. The pip tool is packaged with recent Python versions.

  - [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org) is a software library for data manipulation and analysis. Pandas offers data structures and operations for manipulating numerical tables and time series. To import into Power BI, Python data must be in a [pandas data frame](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/python_pandas/python_pandas_dataframe.htm). A data frame is a two-dimensional data structure, such as a table with rows and columns.

  - [Matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org) is a plotting library for Python and its numerical mathematics extension [NumPy](https://www.numpy.org). Matplotlib provides an object-oriented API for embedding plots into general-purpose graphical user interface (GUI) applications for Python, such as Tkinter, wxPython, Qt, or GTK+.

  ```console
  pip install pandas
  pip install matplotlib
  ```

## Enable Python scripting

To enable Python scripting in Power BI:

1. In Power BI Desktop, select **File** > **Options and settings** > **Options** > **Python scripting**. The **Python script options** page appears.

   ![Screenshot that shows the Python script options for Power BI Desktop.](media/desktop-python-scripts/python-scripts-7.png)

1. If necessary, supply or edit your local Python installation path under **Detected Python home directories**. In the preceding image, the Python's installation local path is *C:\Users\Python*. If you have more than one local Python installation, make sure to select the one that you want to use.

1. Select **OK**.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Power BI runs scripts directly by using the *python.exe* executable from the directory you provide in **Settings**. Python distributions that require an extra step to prepare the environment, such as Conda, might fail to run. To avoid these issues, use the official Python distribution from [https://www.python.org](https://www.python.org). Another possible solution is to start Power BI Desktop from your custom Python environment prompt.

## Create a Python script

Create a script in your local Python development environment and make sure it runs successfully. To prepare and run a Python script in Power BI Desktop, there are a few limitations:

- Only pandas data frames import, so make sure the data you want to import to Power BI is represented in a data frame.
- Any Python script that runs longer than 30 minutes times out.
- Interactive calls in the Python script, such as waiting for user input, halt the script's execution.
- If you set a working directory within the Python script, you must define a full path to the working directory rather than a relative path.
- Nested tables aren't supported.

Here's a simple example Python script that imports pandas and uses a data frame:

```python
import pandas as pd
data = [['Alex',10],['Bob',12],['Clarke',13]]
df = pd.DataFrame(data,columns=['Name','Age'])
print (df)
```

When run, this script returns:

```output
     Name   Age
0    Alex  10.0
1     Bob  12.0
2  Clarke  13.0
```

## Run the script and import data

To run your Python script:

1. In the **Home** group of the Power BI Desktop ribbon, select **Get data**.

1. In the **Get Data** dialog box, select **Other** > **Python script**, and then select **Connect**. Power BI uses your latest installed Python version as the Python engine.

   ![Screenshot that shows Get Data with Python script selected.](media/desktop-python-scripts/python-scripts-1.png)

1. On the **Python script** screen, paste your Python script into the **Script** field, and select **OK**.

   ![Screenshot that shows pasting the sample Python script into the Python script dialog box.](media/desktop-python-scripts/python-scripts-6.png)

1. If the script runs successfully, the **Navigator** window appears, and you can load the data. Select the **df** table, and then select **Load**.

   ![Screenshot of the Navigator window showing data to load and use.](media/desktop-python-scripts/python-scripts-5.png)

Power BI imports the data, and you can use it to create visualizations and reports. To refresh the data, select **Refresh** in the **Home** group of the Power BI Desktop ribbon. When you refresh, Power BI runs the Python script again.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If Python isn't installed or identified, a warning appears. You might also get a warning if you have multiple local machine installations.
>
> ![Screenshot of a Warning that Python isn't installed.](media/desktop-python-scripts/python-scripts-3.png)

## Related content

For more information about Python in Power BI, see:

- [Create Power BI visuals with Python](desktop-python-visuals.md)
- [Use an external Python IDE with Power BI](desktop-python-ide.md)
- [Use Python in Power Query Editor](desktop-python-in-query-editor.md)
