---
title: Connect to the Microsoft 365 Emissions Impact Dashboard
description: The Microsoft 365 Emissions Impact Dashboard for Power BI enables you to calculate your cloud-based emissions generated by your usage of Azure and Microsoft Dynamics. This document shows you how to connect to the Microsoft 365 Emissions Impact Dashboard.
author: paulinbar
ms.author: painbar
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-template-apps
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 12/14/2021
LocalizationGroup: Connect to services
---

# Connect to the Emissions Impact Dashboard for Microsoft 365 (preview) 

Calculate your cloud-based carbon emissions today with the Emissions Impact Dashboard. 

Accurate carbon accounting requires good information from partners, vendors, and suppliers. The Emissions Impact Dashboard for Microsoft 365 gives you transparency on the carbon emissions generated by your organization's usage of Microsoft 365. Microsoft's carbon accounting extends across all three scopes of emissions with a 3rd party-validated methodology. It uses consistent and accurate carbon accounting to quantify the impact of Microsoft 365 services on customers' environmental footprint. 

## Prerequisites 

To install the Emissions Impact Dashboard for Microsoft 365 (preview) in Power BI and connect it to your data, make sure you have the following:

* A Microsoft 365 enterprise or business subscription
* A Power BI Pro license. If you don't have a Power BI Pro license, get a [free trial now](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/power-bi-pro).
* One of the following Microsoft 365 admin roles:
    * Global admin
    * Exchange admin
    * Skype for Business admin
    * SharePoint admin
    * Global reader
    * Report reader 

The Emissions Impact Dashboard for Microsoft 365 (preview) is supported for any organization with a Microsoft 365 business or enterprise SKU.

>[!NOTE]
> The Emissions Impact Dashboard for Microsoft 365 (preview) is currently not available for Microsoft 365 Government offerings (GCC, GCC High, and DoD). 

## Install the app

1. Click the following link to get to the app: Emissions Impact Dashboard template app. [Peter to add link when available]

1. On the AppSource page for the app, select **GET IT NOW**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/service-connect-to-emissions-impact-dashboard-for-m365/m365-emissions-dashboard-appsource.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Emissions Impact Dashboard on AppSource.":::

    You can also search for the app in Power BI. 

1. When prompted, click **Install**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/service-connect-to-emissions-impact-dashboard-for-m365/m365-emissions-dashboard-install.png" alt-text="Screenshot of install dialog.":::

1. When the app finishes installing, it will appear on your Power BI Apps page. Click on the app and open it. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/service-connect-to-emissions-impact-dashboard-for-m365/m365-emissions-dashboard-apps-page.png" alt-text="Screenshot of app installed on app page.":::

1. Select **Connect your data**. 

     :::image type="content" source="media/service-connect-to-emissions-impact-dashboard-for-m365/m365-emissions-dashboard-connect-data.png" alt-text="Screenshot of connect data.":::

1. In the **Connect to Emissions Impact Dashboard** dialog, enter your Microsoft 365 tenant ID. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/service-connect-to-emissions-impact-dashboard-for-m365/m365-emissions-dashboard-tenant-id.png" alt-text="Screenshot of tenant id input."::: 

    When done, click **Next**. 

1. Connect your account:

    * For **Authentication method**, choose **OAuth2**.
    * For **Privacy level setting for this data source**, choose **Organizational**.
    * When done, click **Sign in and connect**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/service-connect-to-emissions-impact-dashboard-for-m365/m365-emissions-dashboard-sign-in-connect.png" alt-text="Screenshot of authentication and sign in."::: 

1. Select the user account. Please make sure to login with the credentials which have access to the enrollmentID/Billing AccountID with valid permissions as explained in the [prerequisites](#prerequisites). 

    :::image type="content" source="media/service-connect-to-emissions-impact-dashboard-for-m365/m365-emissions-dashboard-pick-account.png" alt-text="[Screenshot of picking an account."::: 

    Wait for the view to build. This can take 24-48 hours. Please refresh the dataset after 24 hours. 

## Update the app 

Periodically you may receive update notifications from Appsource/Power BI about a new version of the app. When you install the new version, the following options are available: 

:::image type="content" source="media/service-connect-to-emissions-impact-dashboard-for-m365/m365-emissions-dashboard-update.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Update app dialog.":::

Choose **Update the workspace and the app**, then click **Install**. This will install the update, overwriting the existing/installed workspace and app. 

### Issues 

If there are any issues with the dataset refresh/app update during the updating process, please validate the following steps and refresh the dataset. 

Follow the steps below to make sure your dataset configurations are set correctly: 

1. Go to the workspace panel and open the app workspace.

1. Open the **Scheduled Refresh** option in the dataset settings. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/service-connect-to-emissions-impact-dashboard-for-m365/m365-emissions-dashboard-scheduled-refresh.png" alt-text="Screenshot of scheduled refresh button."::: 

1. Open the **Parameters** section and configure the data source once again in the **Data Source** section with the credentials with which you have access to the **Tenant ID** with valid permissions, mentioned in the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) section above. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/service-connect-to-emissions-impact-dashboard-for-m365/m365-emissions-dashboard-data-source-credentials.png" alt-text="Screenshot of data source credentials.":::

1. Once the above steps are validated, go back to the app workspace and click on the **Refresh** option. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/service-connect-to-emissions-impact-dashboard-for-m365/m365-emissions-dashboard-refresh.png" alt-text="Screenshot of refresh button."::: 

1. Once the dataset has refreshed successfully, click the **Update App** option at the top-right corner of the app workspace. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/service-connect-to-emissions-impact-dashboard-for-m365/m365-emissions-dashboard-update-app.png" alt-text="Screenshot of update app button."::: 

## Additional resources

* How-to video [Peter to add new link once available]
* [The carbon benefits of cloud computing: A study on the Microsoft Cloud in partnership with WSP](https://download.microsoft.com/download/7/3/9/739BC4AD-A855-436E-961D-9C95EB51DAF9/Microsoft_Cloud_Carbon_Study_2018.pdf)
* [Microsoft Sustainability webpage](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sustainability)

### Finding your company’s Microsoft 365 Tenant ID 

Follow the steps on [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/onedrive/find-your-office-365-tenant-id to find your tenant ID). 

## FAQs 

### App setup 

**I'm receiving an error at the time of connecting my data with the dashboard. What can I do?**

First, check in the Microsoft 365 Admin Center that you have one of the roles listed in the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) section above. If you don't, request this access from your administrator. Next, ensure you're using the correct Microsoft 365 tenant ID. 

**I entered my tenant ID, but my company data isn't loading. What's the issue?** 

The Emissions Impact Dashboard may take 24-48 hours to load your data. Return after 24 hours and select the **Refresh** button in Power BI. 

**How am I supposed to use this data, and where do I report it?** 

Your emissions can be reported as part of your company's Scope 3 indirect carbon emissions. Scope 3 emissions are often disclosed in sustainability reports, CDP climate change, and other reporting outlets. In addition to the emissions totals, the emissions savings provide a clear example of how your company's decision to use Microsoft 365 services is contributing to global emissions reductions. To contextualize, the app indicates the equivalent vehicle miles avoided corresponding to the reduction in GHG emissions, based on EPA's equivalency calculator factors as of January 2020.

### Methodology 

**What is the methodology behind the tool?** 

The Emissions Impact Dashboard reflects the specific cloud services consumed and the associated energy requirements, efficiency of the datacenters providing those services, electricity fuel mixes in the regions in which those datacenters operate, and Microsoft's purchases of renewable energy. As part of the app's development, the methodology and its implementation went through third-party verification to ensure that it aligns to the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. The scope of the verification, conducted in accordance with ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse gases--Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas assertions, included the estimation of emissions from Azure services, but excluded the estimation of on-premises emissions given the counterfactual nature of that estimate. A more detailed description of the carbon calculation is documented in the **Calculation Methodology**[ tab in the tool. 

**Does this calculation include all Microsoft 365 applications?**

The estimates are currently limited to emissions associated with your organization's use of Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, OneDrive for Business, Microsoft Teams, and the Microsoft Search function within these applications. 

### Characterizing on-premises emissions 

**Where does the Emissions Impact Dashboard obtain data about my on-premises emissions and operations?**

The Emissions Impact Dashboard doesn't obtain any information specifically about your on-premises datacenters except what you provide. As described in subsequent FAQs, the Emissions Impact Dashboard relies on industry research and user inputs about the efficiency and energy mix of on-premises alternatives to develop an estimate of on-premises emissions. 

**What are the assumptions regarding on-premises estimations? Are efficiency savings just from improvements in Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE)?**

Efficiencies associated with Microsoft cloud services include far more than improved PUE. While Microsoft datacenters strive to optimize PUE, the primary efficiency improvements come from IT operational efficiency (dynamic provisioning, multitenancy, server utilization) and IT equipment efficiency (tailoring hardware to services ensuring more energy goes towards useful output), in addition to datacenter infrastructure efficiency (PUE improvements). Our [2018 study](https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-issues/2018/05/17/microsoft-cloud-delivers-when-it-comes-to-energy-efficiency-and-carbon-emission-reductions-study-finds/) quantifies these savings compared to a range of on-premises alternatives ranging from low-efficiency to high-efficiency datacenters. These findings are used to estimate the energy use required for a corresponding on-premises datacenter to provide the same services that each customer consumes on the Microsoft cloud. 

**What is the assumed energy mix for the on-premises infrastructure?**

By default, the Emissions Impact Dashboard estimates on-premises emissions based on the mix of renewables and non-renewables on the grid. It is assumed that the on-premises datacenter would be located on the same grid as Microsoft's datacenters. However, for customers who purchase renewable electricity *in addition* to what's on the grid (for example, through Power Purchase Agreements), users can select the percentage of renewable electricity, and the Emissions Impact Dashboard will adjust on-premises emissions accordingly. 

**When should I choose Low, Medium, or High for the efficiency of the on-premises infrastructure?**

Users should select the efficiency most representative of the on-premises deployment they would like to compare against, based on the equipment and datacenter characteristics here:

* **Low**: Physical servers and direct attached storage in small localized datacenter (500-1,999 square feet).
* **Medium**: Mix of physical/virtualized servers and attached/dedicated storage in mid-tier internal datacenter (2,000-19,999 square feet).
* **High**: Virtualized servers and dedicated storage in high-end internal datacenter (>20,000 square feet).