powerbi-docs/fundamentals/desktop-videos.md, before:

---
title: Power BI Desktop videos
description: Power BI Desktop videos
author: davidiseminger
ms.author: davidi
ms.reviewer: ''
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-fundamentals
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 01/02/2020
ms.custom: video-Qgam9M8I0xA, video-IMAsitQ2cAc, video-ByIUx-HmQbw
LocalizationGroup: Get started
---
# Power BI Desktop videos

Power BI Desktop has a [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1N57mwBHtN2q1WbU5O29rrn_A0lkVv9p)!

See a high-level overview of Power BI Desktop, from getting data and building a report, to sharing your report with others: 

<iframe width="500" height="281" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Qgam9M8I0xA" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Learn how to build stunning reports using Power BI Desktop:

<iframe width="500" height="281" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/IMAsitQ2cAc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> 

Import, reshape, and transform data using Power Query Editor:

<iframe width="500" height="281" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ByIUx-HmQbw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> 

Select the following links to see all the videos available at the Power BI YouTube channel:

- [Get started with Power BI Desktop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qgam9M8I0xA)
- [Create a report in Power BI Desktop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IMAsitQ2cAc)
- [Use the Power Query Editor](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ByIUx-HmQbw)
- [Create relationships between tables](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fVW4MCr0APA)
- [Publish from Power BI Desktop to the Power BI service](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ObwsFdC9e94)
- [Add a calculated column](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=62mLfiNcqVM)

Commit message:

Note aded for videos and costum tag removed for non video

powerbi-docs/fundamentals/desktop-videos.md, after:

---
title: Power BI Desktop videos
description: Power BI Desktop videos
author: davidiseminger
ms.author: davidi
ms.reviewer: ''
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-fundamentals
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 01/02/2020
ms.custom: video-Qgam9M8I0xA, video-IMAsitQ2cAc, video-ByIUx-HmQbw
LocalizationGroup: Get started
---
# Power BI Desktop videos

Power BI Desktop has a [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1N57mwBHtN2q1WbU5O29rrn_A0lkVv9p)!

See a high-level overview of Power BI Desktop, from getting data and building a report, to sharing your report with others: 

> [!NOTE]  
> This video might use earlier versions of Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.

<iframe width="500" height="281" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Qgam9M8I0xA" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Learn how to build stunning reports using Power BI Desktop:

> [!NOTE]  
> This video might use earlier versions of Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.

<iframe width="500" height="281" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/IMAsitQ2cAc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> 

Import, reshape, and transform data using Power Query Editor:

> [!NOTE]  
> This video might use earlier versions of Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.

<iframe width="500" height="281" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ByIUx-HmQbw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> 

Select the following links to see all the videos available at the Power BI YouTube channel:

- [Get started with Power BI Desktop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qgam9M8I0xA)
- [Create a report in Power BI Desktop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IMAsitQ2cAc)
- [Use the Power Query Editor](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ByIUx-HmQbw)
- [Create relationships between tables](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fVW4MCr0APA)
- [Publish from Power BI Desktop to the Power BI service](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ObwsFdC9e94)
- [Add a calculated column](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=62mLfiNcqVM)
