powerbi-docs/fundamentals/power-bi-service-overview.md, before:

---
title: What is the Power BI service?
description: Overview of the Power BI service and how it fits with the other parts of Power BI.
author: mihart
ms.author: mihart
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-fundamentals
ms.custom: video-B2vd4MQrz4M
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 09/05/2019
LocalizationGroup: Get started
# Customer intent: As a Power BI customer or potential customer, I want to get an overview of Power BI so I can understand how the different parts fit together, so that I know which part to use to accomplish my tasks/goals.
---

# What is the Power BI service?
**Power BI** is a collection of software services, apps, and connectors that work together to help you create, share, and consume business insights in the way that serves you and your business most effectively. The Microsoft Power BI *service* (app.powerbi.com), sometimes referred to as Power BI online, is the SaaS (*Software as a Service*) part of Power BI. In the Power BI service, *dashboards* help you keep a finger on the pulse of your business. Dashboards display *tiles*, which you can select to open *reports* for exploring further. Dashboards and reports connect to *datasets* that bring all of the relevant data together in one place. 

Need help with understanding the building blocks that make up Power BI? See [Basic concepts for designers in the Power BI service](service-basic-concepts.md). Or visit our [playlist on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1N57mwBHtN0JFoKSR0n-tBkUJHeMP2cP). A good video to start with is *Introduction to the Power BI service*:

> 
> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/B2vd4MQrz4M" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
> 

The other main components of Power BI are the Windows desktop application **Power BI Desktop** and the Power BI **mobile apps** for Windows, iOS, and Android devices. You and your colleagues can use these three elements&mdash;Power BI Desktop, the service, and the mobile apps&mdash;to create, share, and consume business insights. Read [What is Power BI](power-bi-overview.md) for an overview.

## Creating reports in the service
In a typical Power BI workflow, you begin by building a report in Power BI Desktop, then publishing it to the Power BI service.  

This workflow is common, but you can also create Power BI reports right in the Power BI service. Do you have a subscription to a SaaS (software as a service) application like Salesforce? Power BI has apps that automatically create dashboards and reports from your online data. Get a head start by connecting to Salesforce or [check out the other SaaS apps](../connect-data/service-get-data.md) you can connect to. If you're part of an organization, someone in your organization may have published [apps](../collaborate-share/service-create-distribute-apps.md) and distributed them to you.

## Sharing your findings 

After you've created reports and dashboards, you can share them so end users in the Power BI service and mobile devices can view and interact with them. Being able to control how you share your work is one of the most important features of the Power BI service. You create workspaces where you and your colleagues can collaborate on reports and dashboards. Then you can bundle and distribute them as apps. You can also share the datasets themselves, so others can use them as a basis for their own reports. Read more about [ways to share your work in Power BI](../collaborate-share/service-how-to-collaborate-distribute-dashboards-reports.md).

## Next steps

- Quickstart for consumers: [Learn your way around the Power BI service](../consumer/end-user-experience.md)   
- [Tutorial: Get started with the Power BI service](service-get-started.md)
- [Quickstart: Connect to data in Power BI Desktop](../connect-data/desktop-quickstart-connect-to-data.md)

Commit message:

Note aded for videos and costum tag removed for non video

powerbi-docs/fundamentals/power-bi-service-overview.md, after:

---
title: What is the Power BI service?
description: Overview of the Power BI service and how it fits with the other parts of Power BI.
author: mihart
ms.author: mihart
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-fundamentals
ms.custom: video-B2vd4MQrz4M
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 09/05/2019
LocalizationGroup: Get started
# Customer intent: As a Power BI customer or potential customer, I want to get an overview of Power BI so I can understand how the different parts fit together, so that I know which part to use to accomplish my tasks/goals.
---

# What is the Power BI service?
**Power BI** is a collection of software services, apps, and connectors that work together to help you create, share, and consume business insights in the way that serves you and your business most effectively. The Microsoft Power BI *service* (app.powerbi.com), sometimes referred to as Power BI online, is the SaaS (*Software as a Service*) part of Power BI. In the Power BI service, *dashboards* help you keep a finger on the pulse of your business. Dashboards display *tiles*, which you can select to open *reports* for exploring further. Dashboards and reports connect to *datasets* that bring all of the relevant data together in one place. 

Need help with understanding the building blocks that make up Power BI? See [Basic concepts for designers in the Power BI service](service-basic-concepts.md). Or visit our [playlist on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1N57mwBHtN0JFoKSR0n-tBkUJHeMP2cP). A good video to start with is *Introduction to the Power BI service*:

> [!NOTE]  
> This video might use earlier versions of Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.

> 
> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/B2vd4MQrz4M" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
> 

The other main components of Power BI are the Windows desktop application **Power BI Desktop** and the Power BI **mobile apps** for Windows, iOS, and Android devices. You and your colleagues can use these three elements&mdash;Power BI Desktop, the service, and the mobile apps&mdash;to create, share, and consume business insights. Read [What is Power BI](power-bi-overview.md) for an overview.

## Creating reports in the service
In a typical Power BI workflow, you begin by building a report in Power BI Desktop, then publishing it to the Power BI service.  

This workflow is common, but you can also create Power BI reports right in the Power BI service. Do you have a subscription to a SaaS (software as a service) application like Salesforce? Power BI has apps that automatically create dashboards and reports from your online data. Get a head start by connecting to Salesforce or [check out the other SaaS apps](../connect-data/service-get-data.md) you can connect to. If you're part of an organization, someone in your organization may have published [apps](../collaborate-share/service-create-distribute-apps.md) and distributed them to you.

## Sharing your findings 

After you've created reports and dashboards, you can share them so end users in the Power BI service and mobile devices can view and interact with them. Being able to control how you share your work is one of the most important features of the Power BI service. You create workspaces where you and your colleagues can collaborate on reports and dashboards. Then you can bundle and distribute them as apps. You can also share the datasets themselves, so others can use them as a basis for their own reports. Read more about [ways to share your work in Power BI](../collaborate-share/service-how-to-collaborate-distribute-dashboards-reports.md).

## Next steps

- Quickstart for consumers: [Learn your way around the Power BI service](../consumer/end-user-experience.md)   
- [Tutorial: Get started with the Power BI service](service-get-started.md)
- [Quickstart: Connect to data in Power BI Desktop](../connect-data/desktop-quickstart-connect-to-data.md)
