powerbi-docs/fundamentals/service-self-service-sign-up-help.md, before:

---
title: Self-service sign-up and purchase help
description: Learn what to do if the Power BI self-service sign-up or the self-service purchase feature is disabled.
author: mihart
ms.author: mihart
services: powerbi
ms.topic:  conceptual
ms.service: powerbi
ms.custom:
ms.subservice: pbi-fundamentals
ms.date: 04/02/2024
---
# What to do if self-service is disabled

You try to start a trial, sign up for a free license, or purchase a Power BI license. You perform these actions on your own, which is referred to as ["self-service](/microsoft-365/admin/misc/self-service-sign-up)." It doesn't work and you get a message that self-service is disabled. For various reasons, some organizations block members from self-service sign-up, self-service trial, and self-service purchase. For example, your organization's centralized IT department or help desk might have a policy that they manage all licenses and subscriptions, even free licenses.

![Screenshot of the getting started dialog showing the message that the organization doesn't allow users to purchase Power BI Pro.](media/service-self-service-purchase-help/power-bi-error.png)

## Solution

To finish your purchase, contact your IT department or help desk and ask them to [follow these instructions to provide you with a license](/microsoft-365/commerce/subscriptions/manage-self-service-purchases-admins).

There are scenarios where you yourself used self-service to purchase or trial Power BI. This self-service action makes you an admin and gives you limited access to the Microsoft 365 admin center. Use the admin center to add and manage your users' self-service licenses, trials, and purchases. Follow the instructions in [Manage self-service purchases and trials (for users)](/microsoft-365/commerce/subscriptions/manage-self-service-purchases-users) to learn how to enable and disable self-service for your tenant. 

## Related content

- [Power BI features by license type](service-features-license-type.md)
- [Self-service for Power BI](service-self-service-signup-purchase-for-power-bi.md)

Commit message:

add admin option to customize self service

powerbi-docs/fundamentals/service-self-service-sign-up-help.md, after:

---
title: Self-service sign-up and purchase help
description: Learn what to do if the Power BI self-service sign-up or the self-service purchase feature is disabled.
author: mihart
ms.author: mihart
services: powerbi
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: powerbi
ms.custom:
ms.subservice: pbi-fundamentals
ms.date: 07/03/2024
---
# What to do if self-service is disabled

You try to start a trial, sign up for a free license, or purchase a Power BI license. You perform these actions on your own, which is referred to as ["self-service](/microsoft-365/admin/misc/self-service-sign-up)." It doesn't work and you get a message that self-service is disabled. For various reasons, some organizations block members from self-service sign-up, self-service trial, and self-service purchase. For example, your organization's centralized IT department or help desk might have a policy that they manage all licenses and subscriptions, even free licenses.

![Screenshot of the getting started dialog showing the message that the organization doesn't allow users to purchase Power BI Pro.](media/service-self-service-purchase-help/power-bi-error.png)

## Solution: no self-service

To finish your purchase, contact your IT department or help desk and ask them to [follow these instructions to provide you with a license.](/microsoft-365/commerce/subscriptions/manage-self-service-purchases-admins)

There are scenarios where you yourself used self-service to purchase or trial Power BI. This self-service action makes you an admin and gives you limited access to the Microsoft 365 admin center. Use the admin center to add and manage your users' self-service licenses, trials, and purchases. Follow the instructions in [Manage self-service purchases and trials (for users)](/microsoft-365/commerce/subscriptions/manage-self-service-purchases-users) to learn how to enable and disable self-service for your tenant. 

## The screens for getting a license look different

Some organizations set up their own process for requesting trials, upgrades, and licenses. 

## Solution: different process

Your organization might have its own process for self-service sign-ups and purchases. Follow those steps instead to request a license.

## Related content

- [Power BI features by license type](service-features-license-type.md)
- [Self-service for Power BI](service-self-service-signup-purchase-for-power-bi.md)
