---
title: CI/CD for org apps in Fabric (Preview)
description: This article describes how to set up continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD) for org apps in Microsoft Fabric.
author: mberdugo
ms.author: monaberdugo
ms.reviewer: duaskins
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-explore
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 01/26/2025
#customer intent: As a Power BI user, I want to learn how to set up continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD) for org apps in Microsoft Fabric so that I can automate the deployment process.
---

# CI/CD for org apps in Fabric (Preview)

This article explains how [Git integration](/fabric/cicd/git-integration/intro-to-git-integration) and [deployment pipelines](/fabric/cicd/deployment-pipelines/intro-to-deployment-pipelines) work for [org apps](./org-app-items.md) in Microsoft Fabric. Learn how to set up a connection to your repository, manage your org app through Git, and deploy it across different environments.

## Org apps and Git integration

### Connect to a Git repository

From your workspace settings, set up a connection to your repo to commit and sync changes. To set up the connection, see [Get started with Git integration](/fabric/cicd/git-integration/git-get-started) article. 

After you connect, the workspace displays information about source control that allows you to view the connected branch, the status of each item in the branch, and the time of the last sync.

### Org apps representation in Git

When you commit the org app item to the Git repo, a folder is created for each item and named  `{display name}.OrgApp`. It contains two files:

- `.platform` file which is auto generated by the system. Learn more from [system file](/fabric/cicd/git-integration/source-code-format#automatically-generated-system-files).
- `definition.json` file which is the definition of the org app item. 
<!--- Learn more about [Mirrored database item definition](/rest/api/fabric/articles/item-management/definitions/mirrored-database-definition) --->

The definition file is divided into two sections:

- Static settings: describe the app's external appearance , such as the theme, logo, and experience settings.
- Elements: describe the app's internal structure.
  - Section elements: Container elements that have their own collection of Org apps
  - Item elements: Power BI items. During Git export or import, ItemLogicalId and FolderObjectId properties are remapped..

The following diagram shows the structure of the org app.

:::image type="content" source=".media/org-app-cicd/org-app-structure.png" alt-text="Diagram showing the structure of an Org app item. The static settings are showm above the org app and the item elements are below.":::

The definition file contains:

- Settings
  - Logo
  - Theme
    - Background
    - Foreground
    - BackgroundHover
    - BackgroundSelected
    - BackgroundPressed
  - ExperienceSettings
    - NavigationPane
      - IsHidden
      - IsCollapsed
      - IndependentPageNavigation
  - ItemTypeSettings
  - Report
    - HidePagePane
- Elements
  - ElementType (can be: *overview*, *section*, *item*, or *link*)
  - ElementId
  - ItemType (only for ElementType: *item*)
  - ItemLogicalId (only for ElementType: *item*)
  - isHidden (not when for ElementType: *overview*)
  - DisplayName
  - Header (only for ElementType: *overview*)
    - Title
    - Body
    - ShowTheme
  - Elements (only for ElementType: *section*)
  - Url (only for ElementType: *link*)
  - LinkType (only for ElementType: *link*. Values are *embedded* or *newtab*)

The following JSON code is an example of the `definition.json` file for an org app item:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://developer.microsoft.com/json-schemas/fabric/item/orgapp/definition/orgAppDefinition/1.0.0/schema.json",
  "settings": {
    "theme": {
      "background": "#2fb136",
      "foreground": "#000000",
      "backgroundHover": "#59c15e",
      "backgroundSelected": "#82d086",
      "backgroundPressed": "#ace0af"
    }
  },
  "elements": [
    {
      "elementType": "item",
      "elementId": "08e649a9-0fe6-40bd-b0c3-7fc900b7550f",
      "itemType": "Report",
      "itemLogicalId": "e0fa7df4-5528-4c37-bf2c-9ec02ffef18d",
      "isHidden": false,
      "displayName": "Daily Dashboard"
    },
    {
      "elementType": "item",
      "elementId": "410f87ee-8402-49b0-abbb-31cb69dc1ebc",
      "itemType": "SemanticModel",
      "itemLogicalId": "8f633535-6fb4-467f-a668-6bc55c5735b8",
      "isHidden": false,
      "displayName": "410f87ee-8402-49b0-abbb-31cb69dc1ebc"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Org apps in deployment pipelines

You can use Fabric deployment pipeline to deploy your org app across different environments, such as development, test, and production. And you can use deployment rules to customize the org app.

To learn how to use deployment pipelines, see [Introduction to deployment pipelines](/fabric/cicd/deployment-pipelines/intro-to-deployment-pipelines).

## Considerations and limitations

## Related content

- [Introduction to the CI/CD process as part of application lifecycle management (ALM) in Microsoft Fabric](/fabric/cicd/cicd-overview)
- [Introduction to Git integration](/fabric/cicd/git-integration/intro-to-git-integration)
- [Introduction to deployment pipelines](/fabric/cicd/deployment-pipelines/intro-to-deployment-pipelines)