---
title: "Use Explore (preview) in the Power BI service"
description: In this article, you learn how to explore your data in the Power BI service.
author: julcsc
ms.author: juliacawthra
ms.reviewer: vipinhei
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-explore
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/05/2026
no-loc: [Copilot]
ms.collection: ce-skilling-ai-copilot
---

# Use Explore (preview) in the Power BI service

> [!NOTE]
> The Explore feature in the Power BI service is currently in preview.

Explore in the Power BI service is a new experience that you can use to explore your data in a focused way. It's designed to be easy to use, so you can quickly get the answers you need without having to be a Power BI expert. You can use Explore on an existing visual to dig into the underlying data, or you can start with a blank canvas and pull in the data you want to explore.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/explore-matrix-plus-visual.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing exploring a matrix and a visual." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/explore-matrix-plus-visual.png":::

A few scenarios when you could benefit from Explore include:

- You want to see the underlying data behind a visual in a report or a Copilot-generated visual.
- You want to explore a new semantic model (dataset) to learn about it.
- You want to create a new visual or matrix from scratch, but you don't want to create a report.
- You want to explore a semantic model that you don't have permission to edit, but you want to create a new visual or matrix from it.

Continue reading to learn how to use Explore to build a matrix or visual, customize your Exploration, and then save it to a workspace or as a report to share with others.

## Navigate to the Explore experience

> [!NOTE]
> You can explore data from any supported Fabric artifact where you have **View** permission on the data, unless restricted by your tenant admin. If restricted, you can only use artifacts where you have **Build** permission. *Exception: ***Build*** permission is always required for Lake Houses.*

You can start your experience with Explore from various entry points.

To use Explore in a **visual in a report**, follow these steps:

1. Select **...** for more options.
1. Select **Explore this data**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/from-visual-in-report.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing exploring data from a visual in a report." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/from-visual-in-report.png":::

To use Explore in a **visual generated by Copilot**, follow these steps:

1. Select the **Explore this visual button**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/from-visual-by-copilot.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing exploring data from a visual generated by Copilot." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/from-visual-by-copilot.png":::

To use Explore in an **artifact from a list**, follow these steps:

1. Select **...** for more options.
1. Then select **Explore this data**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/from-artifact-in-list.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing exploring data from an artifact in a list." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/from-artifact-in-list.png":::

To use Explore in an **artifact from a report**, follow these steps:

1. Select **Explore this data**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/explore-data-report-menu-bar.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Explore this data option on the menu bar.":::

To use Explore in a **workspace**, follow these steps:

1. Select the **New** button at the top of a workspace.
1. Then select **Exploration**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/more-options-explore-data-b.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the New button expanding to show the Exploration option.":::

To use Explore in a **data hub**, follow these steps:

1. From the **Discover business insights** action card on the **Details** page, select the **Explore this data** button.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/discover-business-insights.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Explore this data to discover business insights.":::

## Build your matrix or visual with Explore

Regardless of your starting point, when you launch the Explore experience, you land in the new focused view. Your data appears in the data pane, and you can edit, drag and drop, or select fields to start building a matrix or visual.

### Matrix and visual fields

*If you start from a visual*, you see that visual on this page. Get a matrix of the underlying data by expanding the **Matrix** section.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/build-matrix-or-visual.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing exploring data by building a matrix or visual." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/build-matrix-or-visual.png":::

*If you didn't start from a visual*, you see a blank canvas with matrix and visual fields. You can drag and drop fields from the data pane to the matrix or visual, or select other fields to add.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/begin-Exploration.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Explore window opened." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/begin-Exploration.png":::  

The matrix and visual are linked. So as you add fields, sort, and drill into to one, the other one is updated automatically, as long as the visual can accurately reflect the sort or drill state.

For example, you might have a visual with a date hierarchy and you want to drill down to quarters. When you drill down on the visual, the matrix updates accordingly.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/drill-down-next-level.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing drilling down to the next level in the chart." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/drill-down-next-level.png":::

> [!NOTE]
> - Some interactions between the matrix and visual aren't currently supported. For example, if you drill down on a visual, the matrix might not update to reflect the drill state. The matrix and visual are linked, but if you notice that your visual doesn't reflect the drill state you applied to your matrix, it means that the interaction isn't currently supported.
> - In explore, when a user adds or reorders a field in the field well, the matrix automatically adjusts which fields are expanded so the new field is visible. This behavior might be different from what you experience in your reports, depending on the settings the author has chosen.
> - When users launch an Exploration from a formatted matrix in a report, the formatting applied to that matrix during authoring is now carried over. Formatting that's part of the theme won't be carried over. If you'd like to clear any of the formatting, navigate to the more menu (...) in the visual toolbar, and select "Clear formatting"

#### Visual types

You can change the type of visual, like stacked bar chart, pie chart, or funnel, by using the options in the visual type gallery. If you don't choose a visual type, Explore autoselects the type that best suits your selected data. To turn off this autoselection, deselect the **lightning bolt** icon.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/visual-types.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the menu of choices to change visual types." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/visual-types.png":::

### Data pane

Use the **Choose data** section to add or remove data from your Exploration.

Use the **Rearrange data** section of the data pane to make adjustments. Drag and drop fields from the **Choose data** section to the **Rows**, **Columns**, and **Values** wells, or use the **+ Add data** button. You only see the field wells for the outlined selection (that is, the matrix or the visual). Select the other side to see its field wells.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/rearrange-data-visual-black-outline.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing modifying the section with the black border." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/rearrange-data-visual-black-outline.png":::

> [!NOTE]
> Some users might see the data pane on the left as Microsoft experiments with placement to optimize the experience.

### Apply filters to your Exploration

As you build out your Exploration, you can also filter your data. Select the **Add filter** button on the top left to quickly add filters on the fields already in your visual or pick from any fields in your semantic model in the **All data** section.  

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/add-new-filter-trip-purpose-1.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing adding a new filter for trip purpose." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/add-new-filter-trip-purpose-1.png":::

In this Exploration experience, add filters as pills at the top of view, so you can clearly see what the current filter state is and modify it.  

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/apply-filter-trip-purpose-honeymoon-2.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing applying the trip purpose filter." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/apply-filter-trip-purpose-honeymoon-2.png":::

## Add calculations to your Exploration

### Layout options

Switch between a horizontal or vertical orientation by using the **Split view horizontally** and **Split view vertically** buttons along the top.  

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/change-layout-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing switching the layout to side by side." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/change-layout-view.png":::

### Show or hide totals

You can show or hide totals on matrix and table visuals from the toolbar by toggling the option on or off.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/show-hide-totals.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the totals dropdown options with the show row totals and show column totals options toggled to on." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/show-hide-totals.png":::

## Add calculations to your visual

You can add [visual calculations](../transform-model/desktop-visual-calculations-overview.md) to your visuals. Select the **New visual calculation** button on any visual to enter visual calculations edit mode.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/new-visual-calculation.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the New visual calculation button." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/new-visual-calculation.png":::

Enter the calculation or use the provided [templates](../transform-model/desktop-visual-calculations-overview.md#using-templates).

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/add-visual-calculation-templates.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the visual calculations edit mode. The templates menu is opened." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/add-visual-calculation-templates.png":::

For example, to calculate a running sum of visits, use the **Running sum** template:

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/add-visual-calculation-running-sum.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the visual calculations edit mode with a running sum calculation. " lightbox="media/explore-data-service/add-visual-calculation-running-sum.png":::

> [!NOTE]
> In this view, you can also [hide fields](../transform-model/desktop-visual-calculations-overview.md#hiding-fields-from-the-visual) by using the **Rearrange data** menu.

After you add your calculations, select **Back** to return to your Exploration.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/add-visual-calculation-back-hide.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the visual calculations edit mode, the back button is selected." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/add-visual-calculation-back-hide.png":::

Your calculation appears on both visuals, unless it can't be displayed on the other visual.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/add-visual-calculation-final.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing an Exploration with a visual calculation applied to both visuals." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/add-visual-calculation-final.png":::

## Save your Exploration

Save your Exploration to a workspace or as a report.

To **save to a workspace**, follow these steps:

1. Select the **Save** button in the upper-left corner. A dialog box appears.
1. Name the Exploration, pick a workspace to save it to, and add a sensitivity label, if applicable. This step also saves your current canvas layout (horizontal or vertical) of the Exploration.

   :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/save-Exploration.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing naming the Exploration and adding it to a workspace." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/save-Exploration.png":::

To **save as a report**, follow these steps:

1. Select **Save**.
1. Select **Save as report**. This step saves your Exploration as a one-page report matching the layout on the screen.

   > [!NOTE]
   > You need **Build** permission on the underlying semantic model to save as a report.

## Share your Exploration with others

To share your Exploration with others, follow these steps:

1. Select the **Share** button in the upper-right corner.
1. Select the people who can view your Exploration, such as **People in your organization can view**, **People with existing access**, or **Specific people**.
1. Choose more permissions such as **share** or **edit**.
1. Add your recipients' email addresses and an optional message.
1. Select **Send**. You can send via email or Teams, or select **Copy link** to share it on your own.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You're prompted to share the underlying semantic model so the recipients can view the contents of your Exploration. If you're not prompted, you can manually [share the semantic model](../connect-data/service-datasets-share.md) with read permissions. For reports, sharing the underlying semantic model is done automatically.

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/create-send-link.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing selecting People in your organization can view.":::

## Perspectives

For report authors: If your report is built using a large data model, report consumers that decide to use explore might have trouble finding the fields they are interested in in the data pane. To provide them a more focused list of tables and fields, create a perspective (follow [these instructions](../create-reports/power-bi-personalize-visuals.md#use-perspectives-for-a-more-focused-view)) and then set it as the Exploration perspective for your report.  

:::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/perspective-downloads-only.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the choose data section of the data pane with the app downloads options expanded, with downloads only set as the explore perspective." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/perspective-downloads-only.png":::

### Set an Explore perspective

To set an Explore perspective **in the Power BI service**, follow these steps: 

1. Go to **File > Settings > Report settings**.
1. Set your Explore perspective.

To set an Explore perspective **in Power BI Desktop**, follow these steps: 

1. Go to **File > Options and settings > Options > Current File > Report settings**.
1. Set your Explore perspective.

## Permissions, requirements, and limitations

To fully benefit from Explore in the Power BI service, be aware of the following permissions, requirements, and limitations.

### Permissions and requirements

Explore requires the following permissions and considerations:

- **Accessing Explore (preview)**:
  - By default, people with **View** permissions on the data can access Explore (preview).
  - Admins can limit the experience to people with **Build** permissions if they choose by disabling the **Users with view permission can launch Explore** setting in the admin portal.
  - Exception: For Lake Houses, **Build** permissions are always required.

    :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/disable-launch-explore.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how admins can limit to people with build permissions in the admin portal." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/disable-launch-explore.png":::

  - Semantic model owners can also limit Exploration of their models to people with **Build** permissions on an artifact-by-artifact basis. They can do this by disabling the **Allow users with view permissions** setting in the **Explore** section of semantic model settings.

    :::image type="content" source="media/explore-data-service/disable-users-view-permissions.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how admins can limit to people with build permissions in the Explorations section." lightbox="media/explore-data-service/disable-users-view-permissions.png":::

- **Saving an Exploration to a workspace**:
  - Changing a sensitivity label on a semantic model doesn't currently propagate down to the Exploration that you create for it.
  - If you save to **My workspace**, you might need to refresh your page to see the newly saved Exploration artifact.
- **Saving an Exploration as a report**:
  - You need **Build** permissions on the underlying semantic model.
- **Sharing an Exploration**:
  - You need a Power BI Pro or Premium Per User (PPU) license.
  - You need to grant **View** permissions to the underlying semantic model so your recipients can view the Exploration.
    - If you skip this step, your recipients have to request permissions to view the Exploration.
  - Explorations aren't currently shown in lineage view as related to the semantic model.

### Limitations

Explore has some limitations. Keep these important points in mind:

- The Power BI mobile app doesn't support it.
- The Power BI service Home doesn't provide an entry point from artifacts in the list view of semantic models and reports.
- It doesn't support custom visuals.
- It doesn't support the following native visuals:
  - Matrix
  - Slicers
  - Q&A
  - Smart narratives
  - Metrics
  - Paginated reports
  - Power Apps
  - Power Automate
- It doesn't currently support streaming datasets.

## Related content

- [Personalize visuals in a report](end-user-personalize-visuals.md)
- [Organizational licenses and subscriptions for Fabric and Power BI](../enterprise/service-admin-licensing-organization.md)
- [Power BI Premium Per User FAQ](../enterprise/service-premium-per-user-faq.yml)
- [Visual calculations overview](../transform-model/desktop-visual-calculations-overview.md)
