---
 title: include file
 description: include file
 services: powerbi
 author: maggiesMSFT
 ms.service: powerbi
 ms.topic: include
 ms.date: 08/16/2024
 ms.author: maggies
 ms.custom: include file
no-loc: [Copilot]
ms.collection: ce-skilling-ai-copilot
---
## Considerations and limitations

We're continuously working to improve the quality of the report pages, including visuals and summaries generated by Copilot. Here are the current limitations.

- AI may generate content that has mistakes. Make sure it's accurate and appropriate before using it.
- The Copilot button in Desktop report view is always visible in the ribbon; however, Copilot doesn't work unless Copilot for Microsoft Fabric is [enabled in tenant settings](/fabric/get-started/copilot-fabric-overview#enable-copilot) and you have member or contributor access to at least one workspace assigned to a paid Fabric capacity (F64 or higher) or Power BI Premium capacity (P1 or higher).
- Unlike the Data pane or Visualization pane, you can't resize the Copilot pane at this time.
- If you have limited GPU capacity, Copilot may be throttled.
- Copilot can't modify the visuals after it has generated them.
- Copilot can't add filters or set slicers if you specify them in the prompts. For example, if you say: "Create a sales report for the last 30 days." Copilot can't interpret 30 days as a date filter.
- Copilot can't make layout changes. For example, if you tell Copilot to resize the visuals, or to align all the visuals perfectly, it won't work.
- Copilot can't understand complex intent. For example, suppose you frame a prompt like: "Generate a report to show incidents by team, incident type, owner of the incident, and do this for only 30 days." This prompt is complex, and Copilot will probably generate irrelevant visuals.
- Copilot doesn't produce a message for the skills that it doesn't support. For example, if you ask Copilot to edit or add a slicer, it doesn't complete the instruction successfully, as mentioned above. Unfortunately, it *doesn't* give an error message either.
- Read [Update your data model to work well with Copilot](/create-reports/copilot-evaluate-data) for more tips.
