powerbi-docs/learning-catalog/paginated-reports-online-course.md, before:

---
title: "Power BI Paginated Reports in a Day course"
description: This video-based course aims to empower you as a report author with the technical knowledge required to create, publish, and distribute Power BI paginated reports.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: maggies
ms.custom: video-DN1t5p9aui0
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 12/31/2020
---

# Power BI Paginated Reports in a Day course

The **Power BI Paginated Reports in a Day** video-based course empowers you as a report author with the technical knowledge required to create, publish, and distribute Power BI paginated reports. It comprises almost 4 hours 20 minutes of viewable content—available on demand, and is free of charge. There's also a [self-study kit](#self-study-kit) that you can download and use to complete eight hands-on labs.

Specifically, the course targets:

- Power BI report authors
- Excel analysts
- Report authors with SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) skills, requiring a refresher
- Crystal Reports authors

After you complete the course, you'll know how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> - Design report layouts
> - Connect to data sources to retrieve report data
> - Work with parameters
> - Visualize report data
> - Add interactive features
> - Publish, consume, deliver, and embed paginated reports

Watch the welcome and introduction video to start the course.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/DN1t5p9aui0]

## Course outline

The [course of 25 videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT) is organized into eight modules. We recommend you watch the videos in the recorded sequence, starting with video 01 and ending with video 25.

- **Introduction**
  - Video 01: [Welcome and Course Introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DN1t5p9aui0&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 01: Power BI Reporting**
  - Video 02: [Power BI Reporting - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s6Amctk3Z_g&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 03: [Power BI Reporting - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jXTiYJKw1Rs&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 02: Designing Report Layouts**
  - Video 04: [Designing Report Layouts - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EjHANN3rGNs&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 05: [Designing Report Layouts - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2CZIrJU_HZU&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 06: [Designing Report Layouts - Part 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eaFFzkT6pxE&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 07: [Designing Report Layouts - Part 4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0z576TI27Vg&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 03: Retrieving Report Data**
  - Video 08: [Retrieving Report Data - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SHGTTYXtio0&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 09: [Retrieving Report Data - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Dzd9wb7XUY&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 10: [Retrieving Report Data - Part 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OFXG7sl5L2o&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 04: Working with Parameters**
  - Video 11: [Working with Parameters - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o7WaK88kheA&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 12: [Working with Parameters - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=okj6wO72clQ&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 13: [Working with Parameters - Part 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=13-6sWIRD74&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 05: Visualizing Report Data**
  - Video 14: [Visualizing Report Data - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b4TxBBtOWSw&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 15: [Visualizing Report Data - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhEa_TugXeE&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 16: [Visualizing Report Data - Part 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dliLsRvQB-c&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 17: [Visualizing Report Data - Part 4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5yHxuRRP_eU&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 06: Adding Interactive Features**
  - Video 18: [Adding Interactive Features - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LInMHpTEaI0&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 19: [Adding Interactive Features - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b_pr1xsbRJc&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 07: Beyond Report Development**
  - Video 20: [Beyond Report Development - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1CgDVDslwvs&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 21: [Beyond Report Development - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KRwtl7h0ynI&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 08: Bonus Content**
  - Video 22: [Bonus Content: Review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w5zlJ8BodxI&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 23: [Bonus Content: Evolution of Paginated Reporting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pevpai65MvY&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 24: [Bonus Content: Lowering the Barrier to Entry](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vu32LfckCt8&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 25: [Bonus Content: December 2020 Update](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-7M4muS_3BI&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)

## Self-study kit

You can download and set up a self-study kit, which consists of the presentation content and eight hands-on labs:

1. Use [this link](https://aka.ms/priad-student) to download the self-study kit (.zip) locally to your PC (Windows 7, or later).
1. Open the file properties of the zip file, and check "unblock" (Windows may flag the file as potentially untrusted).
1. Create a root course folder. We recommend you name it something like "C:\Training". Remember this location, because you'll need to access the course files during the labs. All lab documents refer to this location as **&lt;CourseFolder&gt;**.
1. Extract the **PowerBIPRIAD-Student.zip** file contents to your root course folder.
1. In the **&lt;CourseFolder&gt;\PowerBIPRIAD** folder, open the **ReadMe.txt** file and work through the setup instructions.

> [!TIP]
> The **ReadMe.txt** file, lab documents and presentation file (PDF) are available in English and also the following eight languages:
> - German (de-DE)
> - Spanish (es-ES)
> - French (fr-FR)
> - Italian (it-IT)
> - Japanese (ja-JP)
> - Korean (ko-KR)
> - Portuguese, Brazilian (pt-BR)
> - Chinese, simplified characters (zh-CN)

> [!NOTE]
> You're responsible for having your own Power BI account. If you don't already have one, see [Sign up for Power BI as an individual](../fundamentals/service-self-service-signup-for-power-bi.md).
>
> You must sign in to Power BI to publish a Power BI Desktop file to a workspace. The publication results in a dataset that's used as a report data source. You don't need a Power BI Pro license or a Power BI Premium subscription to use a dataset as a report data source.
>
> Some lab tasks involve publishing your paginated report to a workspace. You can only open a paginated report when it's been saved to a workspace on a [capacity](../admin/service-premium-what-is.md#reserved-capacities), which has the paginated reports workload enabled. If you don't have access to a suitable workspace, the lab will provide you with a link to watch a video that demonstrates report publication instead.

## Instructor kit

Use [this link](https://aka.ms/priad-instructor) to download the instructor kit (.zip) locally to your PC.

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- Tutorial: [Create a paginated report and upload it to the Power BI service](../paginated-reports/paginated-reports-quickstart-aw.md)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com/)

Commit message:

Note aded for videos and costum tag removed for non video

powerbi-docs/learning-catalog/paginated-reports-online-course.md, after:

---
title: "Power BI Paginated Reports in a Day course"
description: This video-based course aims to empower you as a report author with the technical knowledge required to create, publish, and distribute Power BI paginated reports.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: maggies
ms.custom: video-DN1t5p9aui0
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 12/31/2020
---

# Power BI Paginated Reports in a Day course

The **Power BI Paginated Reports in a Day** video-based course empowers you as a report author with the technical knowledge required to create, publish, and distribute Power BI paginated reports. It comprises almost 4 hours 20 minutes of viewable content—available on demand, and is free of charge. There's also a [self-study kit](#self-study-kit) that you can download and use to complete eight hands-on labs.

Specifically, the course targets:

- Power BI report authors
- Excel analysts
- Report authors with SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) skills, requiring a refresher
- Crystal Reports authors

After you complete the course, you'll know how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> - Design report layouts
> - Connect to data sources to retrieve report data
> - Work with parameters
> - Visualize report data
> - Add interactive features
> - Publish, consume, deliver, and embed paginated reports

Watch the welcome and introduction video to start the course.

> [!NOTE]  
> This video might use earlier versions of Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/DN1t5p9aui0]

## Course outline

The [course of 25 videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT) is organized into eight modules. We recommend you watch the videos in the recorded sequence, starting with video 01 and ending with video 25.

- **Introduction**
  - Video 01: [Welcome and Course Introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DN1t5p9aui0&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 01: Power BI Reporting**
  - Video 02: [Power BI Reporting - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s6Amctk3Z_g&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 03: [Power BI Reporting - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jXTiYJKw1Rs&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 02: Designing Report Layouts**
  - Video 04: [Designing Report Layouts - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EjHANN3rGNs&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 05: [Designing Report Layouts - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2CZIrJU_HZU&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 06: [Designing Report Layouts - Part 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eaFFzkT6pxE&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 07: [Designing Report Layouts - Part 4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0z576TI27Vg&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 03: Retrieving Report Data**
  - Video 08: [Retrieving Report Data - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SHGTTYXtio0&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 09: [Retrieving Report Data - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Dzd9wb7XUY&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 10: [Retrieving Report Data - Part 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OFXG7sl5L2o&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 04: Working with Parameters**
  - Video 11: [Working with Parameters - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o7WaK88kheA&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 12: [Working with Parameters - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=okj6wO72clQ&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 13: [Working with Parameters - Part 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=13-6sWIRD74&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 05: Visualizing Report Data**
  - Video 14: [Visualizing Report Data - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b4TxBBtOWSw&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 15: [Visualizing Report Data - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhEa_TugXeE&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 16: [Visualizing Report Data - Part 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dliLsRvQB-c&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 17: [Visualizing Report Data - Part 4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5yHxuRRP_eU&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 06: Adding Interactive Features**
  - Video 18: [Adding Interactive Features - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LInMHpTEaI0&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 19: [Adding Interactive Features - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b_pr1xsbRJc&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 07: Beyond Report Development**
  - Video 20: [Beyond Report Development - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1CgDVDslwvs&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 21: [Beyond Report Development - Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KRwtl7h0ynI&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
- **Module 08: Bonus Content**
  - Video 22: [Bonus Content: Review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w5zlJ8BodxI&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 23: [Bonus Content: Evolution of Paginated Reporting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pevpai65MvY&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 24: [Bonus Content: Lowering the Barrier to Entry](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vu32LfckCt8&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)
  - Video 25: [Bonus Content: December 2020 Update](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-7M4muS_3BI&list=PL1N57mwBHtN1icIhpjQOaRL8r9G-wytpT)

## Self-study kit

You can download and set up a self-study kit, which consists of the presentation content and eight hands-on labs:

1. Use [this link](https://aka.ms/priad-student) to download the self-study kit (.zip) locally to your PC (Windows 7, or later).
1. Open the file properties of the zip file, and check "unblock" (Windows may flag the file as potentially untrusted).
1. Create a root course folder. We recommend you name it something like "C:\Training". Remember this location, because you'll need to access the course files during the labs. All lab documents refer to this location as **&lt;CourseFolder&gt;**.
1. Extract the **PowerBIPRIAD-Student.zip** file contents to your root course folder.
1. In the **&lt;CourseFolder&gt;\PowerBIPRIAD** folder, open the **ReadMe.txt** file and work through the setup instructions.

> [!TIP]
> The **ReadMe.txt** file, lab documents and presentation file (PDF) are available in English and also the following eight languages:
> - German (de-DE)
> - Spanish (es-ES)
> - French (fr-FR)
> - Italian (it-IT)
> - Japanese (ja-JP)
> - Korean (ko-KR)
> - Portuguese, Brazilian (pt-BR)
> - Chinese, simplified characters (zh-CN)

> [!NOTE]
> You're responsible for having your own Power BI account. If you don't already have one, see [Sign up for Power BI as an individual](../fundamentals/service-self-service-signup-for-power-bi.md).
>
> You must sign in to Power BI to publish a Power BI Desktop file to a workspace. The publication results in a dataset that's used as a report data source. You don't need a Power BI Pro license or a Power BI Premium subscription to use a dataset as a report data source.
>
> Some lab tasks involve publishing your paginated report to a workspace. You can only open a paginated report when it's been saved to a workspace on a [capacity](../admin/service-premium-what-is.md#reserved-capacities), which has the paginated reports workload enabled. If you don't have access to a suitable workspace, the lab will provide you with a link to watch a video that demonstrates report publication instead.

## Instructor kit

Use [this link](https://aka.ms/priad-instructor) to download the instructor kit (.zip) locally to your PC.

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- Tutorial: [Create a paginated report and upload it to the Power BI service](../paginated-reports/paginated-reports-quickstart-aw.md)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com/)
