powerbi-docs/admin/service-security-data-protection-overview.md, before:

---
title: Data protection in Power BI
description: Learn about data protection in Power BI
author: paulinbar
ms.author: painbar
manager: rkarlin
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-eim
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 09/17/2020
LocalizationGroup: Data from files
---
# Data protection in Power BI

## Overview

Power BI plays a key role in bringing data insights to everyone in an organization. However, as data becomes more accessible to inform decisions, risk of accidental oversharing or misuse of business-critical information increases.

Microsoft has world-class security capabilities to help protect customers from threats. Over 3,500 security researchers along with sophisticated AI models reason every day over 6.5+ trillion signals globally to help protect customers against threats at Microsoft.

Data protection capabilities in Power BI build on Microsoft’s strengths in security and enable customers to empower every user with Power BI and better protect their data no matter how or where it is accessed.


>[!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/zEx0449K7F8]

With Power BI's data protection capabilities you can:

* **Classify and label sensitive Power BI data** using Microsoft Information Protection sensitivity labels used in Office and other Microsoft products.  
* **Enforce governance policies even when Power BI content is exported** to Excel, PowerPoint, PDF, and other supported export formats to help ensure data is protected even when it leaves Power BI.
* **Monitor and protect user activity on sensitive data in real time** with alerts, session monitoring, and risk remediation using Cloud App Security.
* **Empower security administrators** who use data protection reports and security investigation capabilities with Microsoft Cloud App Security to enhance organizational oversight.

Read more about [Microsoft Information Protection sensitivity labels](/microsoft-365/compliance/sensitivity-labels) and [Cloud App Security](/cloud-app-security/what-is-cloud-app-security).


## Next steps

* [Learn about sensitivity labels in Power BI and how to use them](service-security-sensitivity-label-overview.md)
* [Set up and use Cloud App Security controls in Power BI](service-security-using-microsoft-cloud-app-security-controls.md)
* [Microsoft Business Applications Summit video session - Power BI and Microsoft Information Protection - The game changer for secure BI](https://mymbas.microsoft.com/sessions/f30c8368-6590-4be3-80d4-2bc677f596a4?source=sessions)

Commit message:

added note with link to form

powerbi-docs/admin/service-security-data-protection-overview.md, after:

---
title: Data protection in Power BI
description: Learn about data protection in Power BI
author: paulinbar
ms.author: painbar
manager: rkarlin
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-eim
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 09/17/2020
LocalizationGroup: Data from files
---
# Data protection in Power BI

## Overview

Power BI plays a key role in bringing data insights to everyone in an organization. However, as data becomes more accessible to inform decisions, risk of accidental oversharing or misuse of business-critical information increases.

Microsoft has world-class security capabilities to help protect customers from threats. Over 3,500 security researchers along with sophisticated AI models reason every day over 6.5+ trillion signals globally to help protect customers against threats at Microsoft.

Data protection capabilities in Power BI build on Microsoft’s strengths in security and enable customers to empower every user with Power BI and better protect their data no matter how or where it is accessed.

>[!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/zEx0449K7F8]

With Power BI's data protection capabilities you can:

* **Classify and label sensitive Power BI data** using Microsoft Information Protection sensitivity labels used in Office and other Microsoft products.  
* **Enforce governance policies even when Power BI content is exported** to Excel, PowerPoint, PDF, and other supported export formats to help ensure data is protected even when it leaves Power BI.
* **Monitor and protect user activity on sensitive data in real time** with alerts, session monitoring, and risk remediation using Cloud App Security.
* **Empower security administrators** who use data protection reports and security investigation capabilities with Microsoft Cloud App Security to enhance organizational oversight.

Read more about [Microsoft Information Protection sensitivity labels](/microsoft-365/compliance/sensitivity-labels) and [Cloud App Security](/cloud-app-security/what-is-cloud-app-security).

>[!NOTE]
>Please use **[this form](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=v4j5cvGGr0GRqy180BHbR-PPBJBIRPlBpEYIBVrF5lRUREtUREJJRzJZSzcyM1pZWU9LOUdSVkFKWC4u)** to submit any feedback you may have concerning Power BI's information protection capabilities and its integration with Microsoft Information Protection sensitivity labels. The product team is interested in hearing about your experiences and greatly appreciates any suggestions you may have to help us improve the product to better suit your information protection needs. Thanks!

## Next steps

* [Learn about sensitivity labels in Power BI and how to use them](service-security-sensitivity-label-overview.md)
* [Set up and use Cloud App Security controls in Power BI](service-security-using-microsoft-cloud-app-security-controls.md)
* [Microsoft Business Applications Summit video session - Power BI and Microsoft Information Protection - The game changer for secure BI](https://mymbas.microsoft.com/sessions/f30c8368-6590-4be3-80d4-2bc677f596a4?source=sessions)
