powerbi-docs/admin/service-support-options.md, before:

---
title: Power BI Pro and Power BI Premium support options
description: This article describes how users of Power BI Pro and Power BI Premium can access self-service and assisted support options.
author: kfollis
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: ''
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-admin
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 06/29/2021
---

# Power BI support options

This article describes the support options that are available to customers who have purchased Power BI Pro, Power BI Premium Per User, and Power BI Premium. Power BI Administrators and other admins in your organization have access to expanded support options. Read [Commonly used Microsoft 365 admin center roles](/microsoft-365/admin/add-users/about-admin-roles#commonly-used-microsoft-365-admin-center-roles) to learn more about who can manage service requests for your organization.

## Get started with support for end users

If you're an end user, you can contact Support directly if you have a Power BI Pro or Power BI Premium Per User license. But, your administrator may prefer you take a different route to get help. Before you contact support, check these requirements:

1. Find out which license you have. To quickly check whether you're eligible to contact Support, select your profile picture from the page header in [Power BI service](https://app.powerbi.com). If **Pro account** or **Premium Per User account** is displayed, you may use the support options listed below. Select **View account** to see more details about your account.

   :::image type="content" source="media/service-support-options/license-type.png" alt-text="Screen capture showing license type displayed with account profile.":::

   > [!NOTE]
   >If you got your Power BI Pro or Power BI Premium Per User license through a guest affiliation with another organization, you can't contact Support. Your license must be assigned directly by the organization that manages your work or school account to enable Support options.

2. Verify whether Power BI Support is your admin's preferred option when you need help. It's easy to check. Select the help menu (**?**) from the page header in Power BI service, then select **Get help**. If this selection takes you to Power BI Support, you may use the support options listed below. Otherwise, you'll be directed to the preferred support option for your organization.

   :::image type="content" source="media/service-support-options/support-menu.png" alt-text="Screen capture showing help menu with Get help selected.":::

## Get started with support for admins

> [!TIP]
>Need help getting started with Power BI? Take advantage of the [one-hour workshops offered by our partners and get a free consultation](https://appsource.microsoft.com/marketplace/consulting-services?search=Onehourfreeconsultingoffer).

Admins can use the **Help + support** experience in the [Power Platform Admin Center](https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com) to get self-help solutions and to create a new service request. Before you contact Microsoft Support, we recommend you follow these steps:

* Check for known service outages or degradation at [Power BI Support](https://support.powerbi.com).

* Look for any notifications about Power BI in the [Microsoft 365 service health dashboard](https://admin.microsoft.com/#/servicehealth).

* Check [Microsoft 365 message center](https://admin.microsoft.com/#/MessageCenter) to make sure there are no planned maintenance activities affecting your experience.

* [Capture diagnostic information from the Power BI service](service-admin-capturing-additional-diagnostic-information-for-power-bi.md) that you can attach to your service request.

[Learn more about how admins can contact support for help with Microsoft 365 business products](/microsoft-365/admin/contact-support-for-business-products).

## Connect with Support

| **Support option** | **Break-fix technical support** | **Billing support** | **Consulting and training** | **Service level <br>(time to initial engagement)** | **Support channel** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Community support**: Web forums for users to get peer-to-peer support, guidance, and share solutions. Answers are answers provided by a global community of Power BI experts and Microsoft employees. | X |   |   | None, engagement is provided on a best-effort basis. | [Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com) |
| **Power BI Pro end-user support**: Basic technical support for end users creating and consuming content in Power BI. | X |   |   | One business day. | [Power BI Support](https://support.powerbi.com)  |
| **Power BI Premium Per User end-user support**: Technical and billing support for end users creating and consuming content in Power BI. | X | X |  | One business day. | [Power BI Support](https://support.powerbi.com)  |
| **Power BI Premium admin support**: Technical support for administrators deploying and operating Power BI Premium capacities. | X |   |   | One business day or one hour, depending on severity of case.\* | [Power BI Support](https://support.powerbi.com)<br>OR<br>[Power Platform admin center](https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com/support) |
| **Power BI admin support**: Technical and billing support for administrators of Power BI deployments at their organizations.  To use this option, you must be a Power BI Administrator or be assigned a Microsoft 365 admin role that can manage service requests. | X | X |   | One business day or one hour, depending on severity of case.\* | [Power Platform admin center](https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com/support) |
| **Microsoft Premier support**: An enterprise-grade approach to support, with account management, the option for on-site support, and services such as training and data model performance optimization. | X | X | X | Various, depending on offering and severity of case.\* | Technical Account Manager <br>OR<br> [Power Platform admin center](https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com/support) |
| | | | | | |

\* A one-hour SLA is available only through _Sev A cases_, which require justification of immediate, direct business impact from work stoppage in existing production reporting.

## Power BI benefits for Microsoft Premier support

With Microsoft Premier support, you also get the following benefits:

- Account management
- Option for on-site support
- Health check, risk assessments, and reviews
- Training and workshops
- Developer support

As a Power BI customer, you can also take advantage of the following offerings for proactive support hours:

 - **Power BI Assessment**, a service delivered by a Microsoft accredited engineer to diagnose potential issues and performance with your Power BI environment. The engineer will provide valuable guidance on recommended practices to improve the health and performance of your Power BI environment. At the end of this assessment, you'll receive a comprehensive Power BI report of results, a detailed best practices guidance deck, and a summary report tailored to your environment.

 - **Activate Business Analytics with Power BI**
Work side-by-side with a Microsoft Premier Field Engineer (PFE) over three days, developing a proof-of-concept in Power BI, with the objective of improving one of the following options:

    - Automating a detailed report that requires a significant amount of effort to maintain and distribute.
    - Update a report with compelling visualizations or different types of interactivity.
    - Help drive Power BI adoption by setting up key components.
Typical engagements cover use-cases that will provide a quick-win to the organization, a starting point for more complex scenarios, or even bootstrap your environment for Power BI adoption.

  - **WorkshopPLUS - Data AI: Business Analytics with Power BI**
This workshop, typically delivered by a Microsoft PFE, is a great introduction to Power BI, making it an excellent starting point for adoption or for ramping up your users. It will provide you with a complete overview of Power BI functionality and capabilities and covers both Power BI Desktop and Power BI service. You'll learn in detail how to transform data, build a model, build calculations and reports, and  best practices around sharing and governing that content in the Power BI service. You can also expect lots of demonstrations and laboratories, so you can experiment and see the technology in action.

  - **WorkshopPLUS - Data AI: Advanced Data Analytics with Power BI**
This course will provide you the knowledge to understand and implement the key principles of data modeling in Power BI using tools such as Power BI Desktop to publish BI assets for consumption in the Power BI service. This course covers the basics of report development, embedded analytics in Power BI to embed the content into custom applications, real-time dashboards, and advanced analytics involving data science and development in Power BI.

Contact your Microsoft Technical Account Manager for details. If you don't already have a Microsoft Premier support contract, learn more at [Premier support](https://support.microsoft.com/premier).

## Next steps

* [Customize help and support settings](service-admin-portal.md#help-and-support-settings)
* [Find the right Power BI training for you](/learn/powerplatform/power-bi?WT.mc_id=powerbi_docs-link)

Commit message:

Updates for Unified support contracts

powerbi-docs/admin/service-support-options.md, after:

---
title: Power BI Pro and Power BI Premium support options
description: This article describes how users of Power BI Pro and Power BI Premium can access self-service and assisted support options.
author: kfollis
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: ''
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-admin
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 10/06/2021
---

# Power BI support options

This article describes the support options that are available to customers who have purchased Power BI Pro, Power BI Premium Per User, and Power BI Premium. Power BI Administrators and other admins in your organization have access to expanded support options. Read [Commonly used Microsoft 365 admin center roles](/microsoft-365/admin/add-users/about-admin-roles#commonly-used-microsoft-365-admin-center-roles) to learn more about who can manage service requests for your organization.

## Get started with support for end users

If you're an end user, you can contact Support directly if you have a Power BI Pro or Power BI Premium Per User license. But, your administrator may prefer you take a different route to get help. Before you contact support, check these requirements:

1. Find out which license you have. To quickly check whether you're eligible to contact Support, select your profile picture from the page header in [Power BI service](https://app.powerbi.com). If **Pro account** or **Premium Per User account** is displayed, you may use the support options listed below. Select **View account** to see more details about your account.

   :::image type="content" source="media/service-support-options/license-type.png" alt-text="Screen capture showing license type displayed with account profile.":::

   > [!NOTE]
   >If you got your Power BI Pro or Power BI Premium Per User license through a guest affiliation with another organization, you can't contact Support. Your license must be assigned directly by the organization that manages your work or school account to enable Support options.

2. Verify whether Power BI Support is your admin's preferred option when you need help. It's easy to check. Select the help menu (**?**) from the page header in Power BI service, then select **Get help**. If this selection takes you to Power BI Support, you may use the support options listed below. Otherwise, you'll be directed to the preferred support option for your organization.

   :::image type="content" source="media/service-support-options/support-menu.png" alt-text="Screen capture showing help menu with Get help selected.":::

## Get started with support for admins

> [!TIP]
>Need help getting started with Power BI? Take advantage of the [one-hour workshops offered by our partners and get a free consultation](https://appsource.microsoft.com/marketplace/consulting-services?search=Onehourfreeconsultingoffer).

Admins can use the **Help + support** experience in the [Power Platform Admin Center](https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com) to get self-help solutions and to create a new service request. Before you contact Microsoft Support, we recommend you follow these steps:

* Check for known service outages or degradation at [Power BI Support](https://support.powerbi.com).

* Look for any notifications about Power BI in the [Microsoft 365 service health dashboard](https://admin.microsoft.com/#/servicehealth).

* Check [Microsoft 365 message center](https://admin.microsoft.com/#/MessageCenter) to make sure there are no planned maintenance activities affecting your experience.

* [Capture diagnostic information from the Power BI service](service-admin-capturing-additional-diagnostic-information-for-power-bi.md) that you can attach to your service request.

[Learn more about how admins can contact support for help with Microsoft 365 business products](/microsoft-365/admin/contact-support-for-business-products).

## Connect with Support

| **Support option** | **Break-fix technical support** | **Billing support** | **Consulting and training** | **Service level <br>(time to initial engagement)** | **Support channel** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Community support**: Web forums for users to get peer-to-peer support, guidance, and share solutions. Answers are answers provided by a global community of Power BI experts and Microsoft employees. | X |   |   | None, engagement is provided on a best-effort basis. | [Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com) |
| **Power BI Pro end-user support**: Basic technical support for end users creating and consuming content in Power BI. | X |   |   | One business day. | [Power BI Support](https://support.powerbi.com)  |
| **Power BI Premium Per User end-user support**: Technical and billing support for end users creating and consuming content in Power BI. | X | X |  | One business day. | [Power BI Support](https://support.powerbi.com)  |
| **Power BI Premium admin support**: Technical support for administrators deploying and operating Power BI Premium capacities. | X |   |   | One business day or one hour, depending on severity of case.\* | [Power BI Support](https://support.powerbi.com)<br>OR<br>[Power Platform admin center](https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com/support) |
| **Power BI admin support**: Technical and billing support for administrators of Power BI deployments at their organizations.  To use this option, you must be a Power BI Administrator or be assigned a Microsoft 365 admin role that can manage service requests. | X | X |   | One business day or one hour, depending on severity of case.\* | [Power Platform admin center](https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com/support) |
| **Microsoft Premier support**: An enterprise-grade approach to support, with account management, the option for on-site support, and services such as training and data model performance optimization. | X | X | X | Various, depending on offering and severity of case.\* | Technical Account Manager <br>OR<br> [Power Platform admin center](https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com/support) |
| | | | | | |

\* A one-hour SLA is available only through _Sev A cases_, which require justification of immediate, direct business impact from work stoppage in existing production reporting.

## Power BI benefits for Microsoft Premier or Unified support contracts

With Microsoft Premier support, you also get the following benefits:

* Account management
* Option for on-site support
* Health check, risk assessments, and reviews
* Training and workshops
* Developer support

As a Power BI customer, you can also take advantage of the following offerings for proactive support hours:

* **Power BI Assessment**. A service delivered by a Microsoft-accredited Customer Engineer to diagnose potential issues and performance with your Power BI environment. The engineer will provide valuable guidance on recommended practices to improve the health and performance of your Power BI environment. At the end of this assessment, you'll receive a comprehensive Power BI report of results, a detailed best practice guidance deck, and a summary report tailored to your environment.

* **Activate Business Analytics with Power BI**. This offering is designed to help you to implement a real-life scenario and enable Power BI for your organization. Work side-by-side with an expert over three days, developing a proof-of-concept in Power BI, with the objective of improving one of the following scenarios:
    * Scenario 1: Power BI Solution Development. Your organization already has a data warehouse or data marts in place, or your department wants to explore data that isn't in the corporate store yet. We can prototype a Power BI solution that will connect to your data and extract meaningful insights using Power BI models and reports. Common data sources include Azure SQL Database, Azure SQL Data Warehouse (DW) or on-premises data using Enterprise Data Gateway. 
    * Scenario 2: Adoption, Governance and Administration. The focus here is on establishing a framework for Power BI governance and operational processes. We'll review your infrastructure, discuss key components in typical Power BI deployments, and recommend practices for governance, administration, and management of Power BI. 
    * Scenario 3: Enterprise Scale Data Analytics. The focus in this scenario is on developing Power BI Premium models or migrating existing AAS/SSAS models to Power BI. We consider key components, advantages, and limitations of Power BI Premium capacity management and migrations to Power BI Premium from existing enterprise analytics infrastructure.

* **WorkshopPLUS - Data AI: Business Analytics with Power BI**. This workshop is a great introduction to Power BI, making it an excellent starting point for adoption or for ramping up your users. It will provide you with a complete overview of Power BI functionality and capabilities and covers both Power BI Desktop and the Power BI service. You'll learn in detail how to transform data, build a model, build calculations and reports, as well as best practices around sharing and governing that content in the Power BI service. You can also expect many demonstrations and labs, so you can experiment and see the technology in action.

* **WorkshopPLUS - Data AI: Advanced Data Analytics with Power BI**. This offering presents how you can implement the key principles of data modeling in Power BI, using tools such as Power BI Desktop and the accompanying cloud service for the publishing and consumption of Power BI assets. You will develop reports, including DAX, use premium capacities in Power BI, deal with advanced analytics involving AI components, Premium, and Data flows.

* **Power BI Clinic**. This offering presents how you can optimize your Power BI workload. You can use this clinic as a proactive service to help optimize performance before deploying Power BI, or as a reactive service to alleviate existing bottlenecks. You will have an opportunity to work with a Microsoft Subject Matter Expert on Performance Tuning and Optimization of "Slow Running Power BI Reports", with a focus on Report Models and Data Analysis Expressions, or of "Slow Dataset Refresh” with a focus on Power BI dataset refresh performance running in the Power BI Cloud service or Power BI Report Server.
  
Contact your Microsoft Customer Account Manager for details. If you don't already have a Microsoft Premier or Unified support contract, learn more at [Premier support](https://support.microsoft.com/premier).

## Next steps

* [Customize help and support settings](service-admin-portal.md#help-and-support-settings)
* [Find the right Power BI training for you](/learn/powerplatform/power-bi?WT.mc_id=powerbi_docs-link)
