---
title: Automatic aggregations 
description: This article describes using automatic aggregations to optimize query performance.
author: minewiskan
ms.author: owend
ms.reviewer: ''
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-transform-model
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 05/18/2021
LocalizationGroup: Transform and shape data
---
# Automatic aggregations

Automatic aggregations use machine learning to determine client reporting query patterns against DirectQuery data sources. A percentage of those query patterns are then cached in-memory. Most common reporting queries are then returned by the cache rather than being sent to and returned by the data source. The machine learning model runs in the background, continuously tuning the aggregations as use patterns change. 

Azure SQL Database, Azure Synapse Dedicated pool, Azure Data Lake Storage

:::image type="content" source="media/aggregations-automatic/auto-aggregations.png" border="false" alt-text="Automatic aggregations diagram":::

When using DirectQuery, latency can often reduce query response times. Each time a user interacts with a report visualization, a query is passed to the data source. The data source must then calculate and return a result. That round trip can be both time and process intensive, often causing slow responses in reporting visualizations. 

## Requirements

### Supported plans

Automatic aggregations are supported for Power BI Premium and Premium per user datasets.

### Supported modes

Automatic aggregations are supported for DirectQuery mode datasets only. [Composite models](../transform-model/desktop-composite-models.md) are supported, however automatic aggregations are supported for the DirectQuery connection only.

### Permissions

To configure automatic aggregations, you must have Admin permissions for the dataset. Data source credentials must be configured and signed in in dataset settings before automatic aggregations can be enabled.

## Configuring

### Training

In order to create the aggregations cache, the service must first create a framework. This process is referred to as *training*. During training, machine learning algorithms query the data source to determine cardinality. 

Query patterns are ranked by frequency. 

Training refers to the process of creating the aggregation framework and hydrating them with the appropriate data from the data sources. Training differs from the refresh process, in that refresh process does not create new aggregations, but updates the existing ones. Due to the nature of these processes, training can be more resource intensive than refresh processes. 

How often should I train?
Training can be scheduled to occur on a daily, weekly or monthly basis. Training can be triggered in two ways. When scheduled using the UI, training would occur during the first refresh slot created by the user. For example, if I have three refresh slots created, (8:00 AM, 9:00 AM, and 10:00 AM), then training would occur at 8:00 AM (along with the refresh). During the other two slots, only refresh would occur.
You can also manually trigger training at any time using the TOM command <Insert command>

How often should I train?
The suitable training frequency depends on your workload. The intent of training is to revisit the existing aggregations and determine if they suitably address the current query workloads. Determining this frequency and scheduling your training appropriately will help using your computational resources optimally.

What should I do if the training fails?
Given that the cardinality estimation queries are correlated to the percentage of queries cached (based on the user input), reducing the percentage of queries cached can alleviate the issue. 

#### Percentage of queries cached

The automatic aggregations feature is based on the queries against the dataset generated by Power BI reports. The self-learning model analyzes these queries to determine the optimal set of aggregations. This setting also determines the number of aggregations created and thus the storage consumed by them. Finding the optimal setting for your workload can take a few iterations. The default setting is 75% (based on prior experience)

The optimal percentage of queries cached setting is a function of the use-case and workload and will vary on a case-by-case basis. However, you can use the lift chart tool in the automatic aggregations settings page to get an estimation of the level that you should be at. Please note that the lift chart tool provides estimations and is only to be used as a guidance tool. 

The default query cache percentage in 75%. This value 

For example, a setting of 95% will cache nearly all queries detected. More queries will hit the cache rather than the data source, possibly resulting in faster results. but learning and refresh processes could take an excessive amount of time, possibly exceeding time limits causing the learning process to fail. 

### Refresh

Because the aggregations are stored in memory, just like with any other import table it's necessary to refresh the agg table to keep it in sync with the data source. You specify either a daily or weekly refresh, and you can specify up to 48 refreshed per day. The first refresh includes the training process. All subsequent refreshes that day or week update data only. 

:::image type="content" source="media/aggregations-automatic/auto-aggs-refresh.png" alt-text="Configure refresh for automatic aggregations":::


If a refresh fails, it typically will be the first refresh, that includes the training process.



## Fine-tuning

After you've run at least one refresh using the recommended default 75% of cached queries, you can change the percentage to better suit your particular dataset. When you expand **Visualize how changing the percent cached affects this workload**, a lift chart and bar charts can giv you a visual representation of how changing the percentage can affect query response times.

The cache percentage setting determines the query coverage. Having a greater percentage means greater coverage and thus more aggregations created. While having more coverage is optimal for query performance, they also would mean longer training times. Having lesser coverage would help in this aspect, but would degrade performance as certain queries would have to hit the tables in the DirectQuery source. Finding the optimal setting requires an iterative process.

### Query performance impact

The Query Performance Impact lift chart provides an estimation of the percentile of queries as a function of query run times. Using this tool, users can get a directional sense of the query cache level that they must set to achieve their desired SLA and thus the desired performance.

**Query run time** - 
**Percentile of queries** - 

#### Set threshold

Threshold appears as a marker line on Use this setting defines to define a target query response time shown on the lift chart.  marker line used to show the user’s SLA. This helps users compare the performance of the algorithm for different query cache levels by showing the percentile of queries that are within a given SLA. 


### Scenarios

#### Scenario 1

#### Scenario 2

#### Scenario 3



