---
title: Write Copilot prompts that produce results in Power BI 
description: Read about samples of prompts that help Copilot produce useful visuals in Power BI.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: cnews
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-reports-dashboards
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 11/13/2023
LocalizationGroup: Create reports
---

# Write Copilot prompts that produce results in Power BI

[!INCLUDE [applies-no-desktop-yes-service](../includes/applies-no-desktop-yes-service.md)]

Here are some examples of prompts that work well with Copilot for Power BI. Use these prompts as examples.

## Prompts for creating report pages

Each sample prompt is paired with a report page that Copilot generated based on the interpretation of that prompt. Your prompts help Copilot understand what you're looking for, but they may not produce a page that's exactly what you want. It's a starting point for report page creation. Use the user interface to modify the report page that Copilot created. 

Also, see the [Considerations and limitations section](#considerations-and-limitations-for-visuals-prompts) for features that currently don't work.

### Sales performance by product

"Create a page to analyze the sales amount, revenue, and profit margin of different products, categories, and subcategories over time and across regions."

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-prompts/copilot-prompt-product-analysis.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Copilot sample prompt for sales performance." lightbox="media/copilot-prompts/copilot-prompt-product-analysis.png":::

### Customer segmentation and loyalty

"Create a page to identify and compare the characteristics, behaviors, and preferences of different customer segments based on demographic, geographic, and transactional data."

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-prompts/copilot-prompt-customer-segmentation.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Copilot sample prompt for Customer segmentation." lightbox="media/copilot-prompts/copilot-prompt-customer-segmentation.png":::

### Promotion effectiveness and ROI

"Create a page to evaluate the impact and return on investment of various promotions on sales, revenue, and customer acquisition and retention."

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-prompts/copilot-prompt-promotion-analysis.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Copilot sample prompt for Promotion effectiveness." lightbox="media/copilot-prompts/copilot-prompt-promotion-analysis.png":::

### Inventory and supply chain management

"Create a page to monitor and optimize the inventory levels, reorder points, safety stock, and product costs of different products and product lines based on demand, lead time, and manufacturing costs."

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-prompts/copilot-prompt-inventory-optimization.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Copilot sample prompt for Inventory and supply chain management." lightbox="media/copilot-prompts/copilot-prompt-inventory-optimization.png":::

### Considerations and limitations for visuals prompts

We're continuously working to improve the quality of the report pages, including visuals and summaries generated by Copilot. Here are the current limitations.

- You can't tell it which kind of visual to create.
- Copilot can't modify the visuals after it has generated them.
- Copilot can't add filters or set slicers if you specify them in the prompts. For example, if you say: "Create a sales report for the last 30 days." Copilot can't interpret 30 days as a date filter.
- Copilot can't make layout changes. For example, if you tell Copilot to resize the visuals, or to align all the visuals perfectly, it won't work.
- Copilot can't understand complex intent. For example, suppose you frame a prompt like: "Generate a report to show incidents by team, incident type, owner of the incident, and do this for only 30 days." This prompt is complex, and Copilot will probably generate irrelevant visuals.
- Copilot doesn't produce a message for the skills that it doesn't support. For example, if you ask Copilot to edit or add a slicer, it won't complete the instruction successfully as mentioned above. Unfortunately, it will *not* give an error message either.  

## Prompts for creating a narrative visual

Each sample prompt is paired with a narrative that Copilot generated based on the interpretation of that prompt. Your prompts help Copilot understand what you're looking for, but they may not produce a narrative that's exactly what you want.  

Modify an existing narrative.  You can use the custom prompt area to modify an existing narrative to adjust the tone, formatting, or tweak the summary to your needs. Following are some examples.

### The original narrative

Here's the original narrative from the suggested prompt:

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-prompts/suggested-prompt-1.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing original narrative from the suggested prompt." lightbox="media/copilot-prompts/suggested-prompt-1.png":::

### First modification: Custom prompt

First we modify the narrative with this custom prompt:

"Shorten this summary and bold the key information" 

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-prompts/shortened-summary.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Shorten this summary and bold the key information." lightbox="media/copilot-prompts/shortened-summary.png":::

### Second modification: Custom prompt

This time, we again modify the summary by using a different custom prompt:

"Make the first bullet point about length of stay."

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-prompts/length-of-stay-summary.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Make the first bullet point about length of stay." lightbox="media/copilot-prompts/length-of-stay-summary.png":::
 
### Third modification: Custom prompt

This time, we again modify the summary by using a different custom prompt: 

"Add the question "What are the factors that influence customer retention and return rate?"

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-prompts/modified-question-prompt.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing factors that influence customer retention and return rate." lightbox="media/copilot-prompts/modified-question-prompt.png":::


## Starting from scratch

This time we start from scratch, using custom prompts to generate a narrative. Help the summary focus on one aspect of your data. 

"Generate a summary focused on tourism in Hawaii."

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-prompts/summary-about-hawaii.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Generate a summary focused on tourism in Hawaii." lightbox="media/copilot-prompts/summary-about-hawaii.png":::

 
### Create a table of contents

Now generate a table of contents across your report pages. 

"Make a table of contents for this report that contains a brief description of what each page is about." 

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-prompts/table-contents.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing create a table of contents.":::


### Create a narrative answer about something specific

Create a narrative answer investigating something specific in your report.  For example, this prompt: 

"Generate a summary explaining the relationship between revenue, location, and primary interest."

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-prompts/explain-relationship.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing summary explaining the relationship between revenue, location, and primary interest.":::

 
### Considerations and limitations for the narrative visual

- The visual is in public preview, and therefore may not be 100% accurate.  We are working to continually improve accuracy every day. 
- The visual is not designed to answer specific questions and may not be accurate in providing a response. 
- You cannot edit the generated narrative text directly. 
- Custom prompts aren't designed for immersive, directing editing experiences, for example, "delete the third word in the third paragraph, and add a line in between the fourth and fifth lines."  It's meant as a helpful tool to tweak the narrative, not fully edit.
- The visual is designed to produce text only.

## Send feedback

We always welcome your feedback about our products, but especially during public preview, your feedback helps us improve the product faster.

## Next steps

- [Create a report with Copilot for Power BI](copilot-create-report.md)
- [Create a narrative summary visual with Copilot for Power BI](copilot-create-narrative.md)
- [Update your data model to work well with Copilot](copilot-evaluate-data.md)
- Frequently asked questions about Copilot for Power BI (copilot-faq-fabric.yml)