---
title: Use Copilot with Power BI reports 
description: Learn how to use Copilot in Power BI to create, consume, and enhance reports with AI-driven insights.
author: denglishbi
ms.author: daengli
ms.reviewer: sngun
ms.service: powerbi
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 04/15/2025
---
# Use Copilot with Power BI reports

This article helps you to use the Copilot experiences in Power BI for reports.

Copilot in Microsoft Fabric is a generative AI assistant that aims to enhance the data analytics experience in the Fabric platform, including the Power BI workload. You can use Copilot in Power BI to support both the development and the consumption of reports in certain scenarios.

In order to get the most value from Copilot with reports, you should first ensure you've done the work to ensure Copilot can work with the report's [semantic model](/fabric/data-warehouse/semantic-models). This page assumes you've done that. If you don't adequately prepare your model, then Copilot can produce low-quality and inaccurate outputs that might be incorrect or even misleading.

The following sections guide you through how you can use Copilot in Power BI to either develop or consume a report with the available Copilot experiences.

> [!NOTE]
> For more details, see the [Copilot in Power BI documentation](copilot-introduction.md).
>
> Copilot and its capabilities are evolving over time. The Copilot experiences in the following sections will change, and new experiences might become available with semantic models. As such, you should stay current with the monthly Power BI releases and any relevant Copilot announcements.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You can't enable or disable Copilot in specific workloads, or for specific Copilot experiences. If Copilot in Fabric is enabled in your capacity for a user or security group, then all workloads and Copilot experiences are accessible for those users.

## Create a report page with help from Copilot

You can use the report page creation experience in Copilot to help you create Power BI reports. This experience creates a new Power BI report page with visuals as an output, in response to a natural language input from a user.

### Use cases

You might use the report page creation experience in the following scenarios:

- You're ideating for a report design.
- You want to create a quick prototype report for a dataset.
- You're inexperienced with Power BI and want a "starter report" with your data.

> [!WARNING]
> In its current state, the report page creation experience is likely to produce visuals that don't follow visual best practices, and which can be difficult to read or interpret. If you use Copilot to generate report visuals, ensure that you first evaluate them, and consider modifying the visual formatting yourself so that the report page is more useful and effective for users.
>
> Never distribute a report page generated by Copilot before first checking and adjusting it yourself.

#### Visuals that support Copilot

Only certain visuals support the various Copilot experiences. This is important to know, so that you don't ask questions and expect responses with visuals that Copilot doesn't support. If you need or want to use any unsupported visuals, or custom visuals not listed in the following table, then you should plan and design your report without the use of Copilot.

The following table gives an overview of the supported visual types for Copilot in Power BI:

| **Visual type** | **Show visual in Copilot pane** | **Create visual on page** |
|---|---|---|
| Stacked bar chart | **✓** | **✓** |
| Stacked column chart | **✓** | **✓** |
| Clustered bar chart | **✓** | **✓** |
| Clustered column chart | **✓** | **✓** |
| 100% stacked bar chart | **✗** | **✗** |
| 100% stacked column chart | **✗** | **✗** |
| Line chart | **✓** | **✓** |
| Area chart | **✓** | **✓** |
| Stacked area chart | **✗** | **✗** |
| 100% stacked area chart | **✗** | **✗** |
| Line and stacked column chart | **✓** | **✓** |
| Line and clustered column chart | **✓** | **✓** |
| Ribbon chart | **✗** | **✗** |
| Waterfall | **✓** | **✓** |
| Funnel chart | **✗** | **✗** |
| Scatterplot | **✓** | **✓** |
| Pie chart | **✓** | **✓** |
| Doughnut chart | **✓** | **✓** |
| Tree map | **✓** | **✓** |
| Map | **✓** | **✓** |
| Filled map | **✓** | **✓** |
| Azure map | **✗** | **✗** |
| Gauge | **✗** | **✗** |
| Card | **✓** | **✓** |
| Multi-row card | **✓** | **✓** |
| KPI card | **✗** | **✗** |
| Slicer | **✗** | **✓** |
| Table | **✓** | **✓** |
| Matrix | **✓** | **✓** |
| R script visual | **✗** | **✗** |
| Python script visual | **✗** | **✗** |
| Key influencers | **✗** | **✗** |
| Decomposition tree | **✗** | **✗** |
| Q&A | **✗*** | **✗*** |
| Narrative | **✗**** | **✗**** |
| Paginated report | **✗** | **✗** |
| Card (new) | **✗** | **✓** |
| Slicer (new) | **✗** | **✗** |
| List slicer (new) | **✗** | **✗** |
| ArcGIS for Power BI | **✗** | **✗** |
| Power Apps for Power BI | **✗** | **✗** |
| Power Automate for Power BI | **✗** | **✗** |

\* Q&A is a separate experience that can be enhanced by Copilot. For more information, see [Enhance Q&A with Copilot for Power BI](../natural-language/q-and-a-copilot-enhancements.md).

** The smart narrative visual can also be enhanced by Copilot. For more information, see [Create a narrative visual with Copilot for Power BI](copilot-create-narrative.md?tabs=powerbi-service).

> [!NOTE]
> Over time, Copilot in Power BI will support more visuals. Copilot in Power BI doesn't support custom visuals.

### Benefits

A developer can use the *report page creation* experience to quickly create report pages for temporary or *ad hoc* analyses, or to support their own exploration of the data. Certain users might find this easier or more convenient, particularly when new to the Power BI UI. In limited scenarios, report creators might also use the report page creation experience for ideation and inspiration when creating report designs.

### Specifics of this experience

The *report page creation* experience differs from the standard Copilot in Fabric process in the following areas:

- **Input:** Users provide a written prompt requesting a new report page, describing verbosely how the page should appear and what chart types and fields it should include.

- **Preprocessing and grounding data:** Copilot retrieves grounding data from the report and model schema. It performs schema reduction to try to restrict the context to what is most important. Copilot takes the following information as context to try to improve the usefulness and specificity of the Copilot output:
  - Any report metadata on the current report page. If there's relevant report metadata, then Copilot in Power BI will answer data questions, rather than create a new report page.
  - The conversation with Copilot in the current session. This includes any previous questions and outputs, which includes data points from data questions that Copilot previously answered. If you don't want this context included, you can clear the session by closing the Copilot chat pane, then reopening it before asking Copilot to create a new page.
  - The semantic model schema, which includes tables, rows, columns, measures. This also includes key model objects and properties and other objects (like relationships and calculation groups, as well as descriptions, data types, and formatting that help Copilot use your data and return values in the familiar ways.
  - The full model *linguistic schema*, including synonyms and sample questions.
  - Certain semantic model properties, including descriptions, data types, format strings, and data category.
  
  The following information is excluded:
  - Any report page that's hidden.
  - Any visual that's hidden.
  - Any field (measure or column) in the model that's hidden.
  - Any table in the model that is marked as *private.*

- **Postprocessing:** Copilot performs extensive postprocessing to construct the report page and visuals, including potentially applying a *Copilot theme*.

- **Output**: Copilot returns the report page, which includes various visuals arranged in one of a few standard layouts. Copilot also provides a natural language summary of the report page in the Copilot chat pane.

> [!CAUTION]
> When using Copilot in Power BI with reports, Copilot might use report metadata as grounding data. In certain circumstances like conditional formatting of a visual, report metadata can contain data points, such as column values, which might include sensitive information. This is true both for the legacy report metadata format and the new [Power BI enhanced report (PBIR) format](../developer/projects/projects-report.md).

#### Copilot theme

During postprocessing, report pages generated by Copilot in empty reports will apply a new, Copilot Power BI theme to your report. This theme isn't generated by the Azure OpenAI or produced by Copilot itself, but is a separate, human-created resource that Copilot uses to enhance the output. The theme contains the default background image, visual styles, and report colors. Once the theme is applied, then any future visuals you create—with Copilot or manually—will have these same styles. If you create a new page in an existing report that has at least one visual, then your original theme will be retained. The following image shows what the Copilot theme looks like when applied to an otherwise empty report template (without using Copilot).

Report pages generated by Copilot with the Copilot theme can be a good source for Power BI templates, because they have a consistent layout and style. You can remove the fields from a generated report page and save it as a Power BI template file. Alternatively, you can [export the Copilot theme](desktop-report-themes.md#export-report-themes) and then [import the theme to new reports](desktop-report-themes.md#import-custom-report-theme-files).

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-reports-overview/copilot-theme-no-fields.svg" alt-text="Screenshot showing an example of the Copilot theme without any fields added to visuals.":::

> [!TIP]
> You can also customize and export the Copilot theme from Power BI Desktop and then apply it to other reports. For more information about Power BI themes and their customization, see [Use report themes in Power BI Desktop](/power-bi/create-reports/desktop-report-themes).
>
> Also, you can remove fields from visuals in report pages generated by Copilot and save these reports as Power BI template (.pbit) files, which others can use to conveniently and quickly start creating their own reports.

#### Changing visuals or modifying an existing page

You can manually modify Copilot-created visuals on a page of a report. However, if you ask Copilot to change the visuals or modify the page layout, Copilot tries to accomplish this by creating a new page and deleting the past attemptYou can use Copilot to modify the visuals on a page that you previously created by using Copilot. When you change visuals or modify an existing page by using Copilot, it deletes the page and creates a new one. Copilot can't modify the existing page. This is relevant when you use source control for your Power BI reports, such as Git integration, because you'll see report metadata changes that indicate pages being added or deleted.

> [!TIP]
> For small or specific changes, we recommend that you make them yourself by using the Power BI UI. However, if you want to make many changes at once or re-generate a new layout, then you might try to use the page creation experience to generate a new page.

### Tips to improve Copilot outputs

To improve the reports generated by Copilot, you should apply suggested practices to improve user input prompts and ensure that your semantic model is updated to work well with Copilot. For more information, see [Tips to improve ask data questions](copilot-semantic-models.md#tips-to-improve-copilot-outputs) and [update your data model to work well with Copilot for Power BI](copilot-evaluate-data.md).

## Consume a report by using Copilot

You can use Copilot to ask questions about and summarize reports. This experience is available whenever you use a report, including in [Power BI Desktop](copilot-semantic-models.md#power-bi-desktop), a [published report](copilot-semantic-models.md#published-report) in a workspace, app, or OrgApp item, or in the [Power BI mobile app](copilot-semantic-models.md#power-bi-mobile-app).

### Ask data questions

Consumers can ask questions about reports and get answers by using in the Copilot pane. Copilot can find specific data points for the user and return them as an output, referencing the source visual that they retrieved this from.

Consumers might ask data questions of a semantic model in the following scenarios:

- They can't find the information or analysis that they need in the report.
- They want to see data presented in a different way, and [personalize visuals](/power-bi/create-reports/power-bi-personalize-visuals?tabs=powerbi-desktop) isn't enabled.
- They want to ask a data question using natural language, rather than using tools or code.

> [!NOTE]
> Copilot will first search the report for the answer to the user's question. If the answer isn't on any report page, then Copilot asks a data question of the semantic model.
>
> Furthermore, the experience differs for reports viewed in a workspace and reports viewed in an app. In an app, Copilot might search pages of all reports that a user can access, depending on the [app audience](../collaborate-share/service-create-distribute-apps.md#create-and-manage-multiple-audiences) they belong to.

The following image shows an example of a report consumer asking a data question about a report by using Copilot in the Power BI service.

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-reports-overview/copilot-chat-pane-report.svg" alt-text="Screenshot showing example of user asking a data question that Copilot answers using the report.":::

The image shows the following prompt: *What was the profit margin for Australia in 2022?* Copilot then returns an output with the answer, referencing the current report page and which visual on that page contains the answer.

In the Power BI mobile app, you can also ask data questions for any report by using the Copilot chat pane in the app.

### Summarize a report page

You can summarize report pages by using Copilot in smart narrative visuals on the page, in the Copilot pane, or in report subscriptions.

Consumers might use report page summaries in the following scenarios:

- Reports are complex or difficult to understand and consumers want an explanation.
- Consumers have challenges with visual or data literacy and want help.
- Consumers want a natural language summary to help them think through insights.

To improve the usefulness of summaries, the best thing that you can do is to ensure that prompts are descriptive and accurate.

> [!NOTE]
> As always, it's important to identify any AI-generated content and to encourage users to critique it before they use it to support any decisions or actions that they make.
>
> You can also control the length of the prompt, by requesting that it limits the output to a specific number of characters, words, or sentences. However, you can't control the formatting of the output text. You can only modify the formatting for the summary text in the smart narrative visual of reports.

#### Smart narrative visual

The smart narrative visual can [create dynamic summaries of report pages](copilot-create-narrative.md?tabs=powerbi-service). A report author must first set up the smart narrative visual. Then, the summary will update depending on the data displayed on the page.

The smart narrative can also respond to [custom prompts](copilot-prompts-narratives.md), which is similar to summaries generated in the Copilot pane in response to natural language prompts, described in the next section.

The following image shows an example of a smart narrative summary of visuals on a report page, where footnotes reference specific page visuals.

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-reports-overview/copilot-smart-narrative-visual.svg" alt-text="Screenshot showing example of a user asking for a summary of the report, which Copilot provides in the smart narrative visual.":::

The smart narrative visual on the right part of the page describes the contents of the report that are already shown with visuals.

#### Copilot pane

You can also request [summaries of report pages in the Copilot chat pane](copilot-pane-summarize-content.md). These summaries describe the visuals on the page, and reference visuals where necessary. Summaries in the Copilot pane are useful when users are new to reports and need help, or when they need to find something on a report page.

The following image shows an example of visuals on a report page summarized by Copilot, using the Copilot chat pane.

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-reports-overview/copilot-chat-pane-summary.svg" alt-text="Screenshot showing example of a user asking for a summary of the report, which Copilot provides in the Copilot chat pane.":::

The image shows the following prompt: *Give me an executive summary (asked by clicking the option).* Copilot then provides a summary, including key figures and references to specific visuals that contain these figures.

#### Subscriptions

You can also create [report subscriptions that have natural language summaries generated by Copilot](copilot-summaries-in-subscriptions.md). These summaries can be useful additions to subscriptions that explain key insights in the report. However, summaries might be helpful for users who consume reports via email, even though these insights are redundant with report visuals.

## Related content

- [Create reports in the Power BI service with Copilot](copilot-create-report-service.md)
- [Create reports in Power BI Desktop with Copilot](copilot-create-desktop-report.md)
- [Overview of Copilot for Power BI](copilot-introduction.md)
- [Copilot in Power BI integration](copilot-integration.md)
- [Use Copilot with semantic models](copilot-semantic-models.md)
