powerbi-docs/create-reports/power-bi-automate-visual.md, before:

---
title: Create a Power Automate visual for Power BI (preview)
description: You can create a Power Automate visual so your end-users can run an automated flow all within a Power BI report.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: sunaraya
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-reports-dashboards
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 06/24/2021
LocalizationGroup: Create reports
---
# Create a Power Automate visual for Power BI (preview)

When you create a Power Automate visual in a Power BI report, your end-users can run an automated flow, just by clicking a button in your report. Furthermore, the flow can be data contextual, meaning that the flow inputs can be dynamic, based on the filters the end-users set.

:::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/power-automate-visual-resized-repositioned-report.png" alt-text="Flow button resized and repositioned on the report.":::

## Download the visual

To get started, you download the visual from AppSource and import it to your Power BI report. You need to download it to every report you want to use it in. It's not added the Power BI Desktop.

1. In the **Visualizations** pane select **More options (...)** > **Get more visuals**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/automate-get-more-visuals.png" alt-text="Get more visuals.":::

2. In AppSource, search for **Power Automate** > **Add**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/power-bi-visuals-appsource.png" alt-text="Power Automate visual in AppSource.":::

    When it’s successfully imported, you see the **Power Automate** icon in the Visualization pane. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/power-automate-icon.png" alt-text="Select the Power Automate icon.":::


## Add the Power Automate visual

1. Select the Power Automate icon.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/power-automate-icon.png" alt-text="Select the Power Automate icon.":::

    It automatically gets added to your current report page, with getting started instructions.

1. Scroll, resize the visual, or select the **Focus mode** icon to see all the instructions.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/automate-new-visual.png" alt-text="Power Automate new visual added to the report.":::

1. After you’ve reviewed the instructions, resize the button and place it where you’d like on the report.

## Edit the flow

1. With the flow selected, add any data fields to the **Power Automate Data** region, to be used as dynamic inputs to the flow.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/add-data-field-visual.png" alt-text="Add any fields you want as dynamic inputs.":::

1. Select **More options (...)** > **Edit** to configure the button:

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/automate-edit-visual.png" alt-text="Select Edit to edit the flow.":::

1. In the edit mode of the visual, you either select an existing flow to apply to the button, or create a new flow to be applied to the button.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/apply-power-automate-flow.png" alt-text="Create a flow for a SharePoint list in Power B I.":::

1. You can start from scratch or start with one of the built-in templates as an example. To start from scratch, select **New** > **Instant cloud flow**: 

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/automate-instant-cloud-flow.png" alt-text="New Instant cloud flow."::: 

1. Select **New step**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/create-flow-from-scratch.png" alt-text="Start creating a flow from scratch."::: 

1. Here, you can choose a subsequent action or specify a Control if you want to specify additional logic to determine the subsequent action.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/choose-actions-for-flow.png" alt-text="Choose actions for the flow.":::

1. Optionally, you can reference the data field(s) as dynamic content if you want the flow to be data contextual. This example uses the Region data field to create an item in a SharePoint list. Based on the end-user’s selection, Region could have multiple values or just one.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/include-dynamic-content-for-flow-inputs.png" alt-text="Add dynamic content for the flow.":::

1. After you’ve configured your flow logic, you can name the flow and select **Save**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/save-flow.png" alt-text="Save the flow."::: 

1. Select the arrow button to go to the Details page of the flow you just created:

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/navigate-details-page-for-saved-flow.png" alt-text="Navigate to the Details page for the flow.":::

    Here's the Details page for a saved flow: 

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/details-page-saved-flow.png" alt-text="The Details page for a saved flow.":::

1. Select the **Apply** button :::image type="icon" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/apply-icon.png" border="false"::: to attach the flow you’ve created to your button.

### Format the flow

Optionally, you can change the button text, font color, font size, or fill color of the button. These options along with other settings are available in the **Format** pane: 

:::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/power-bi-flow-format.png" alt-text="Format the flow."::: 

## Test the flow

After you have applied a flow to the button, we recommend testing it before you share the flow with others. These Power BI flows can only run in the context of a Power BI report. You can't run these flows in a Power Automate web app or elsewhere.

If your flow is data contextual, you'll want to test how the filter selections in the report impact the flow outcome.

1. To test the flow in edit mode of the report, select **Back to report**, then press Ctrl while you select the button to run the flow. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/run-flow-button.png" alt-text="Select the Run flow button.":::

    The button text indicates that the flow has been triggered.

1. To check if the flow has run successfully, select the **More commands (...)** menu > **Details** in the flow that has been triggered:

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/entry-point-flow-details-page.png" alt-text="Select Details on the More options menu.":::

1. On the **Details** page, you can see the **run history** and **status** for the flow:

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/details-page-executed-flow.png" alt-text="See the run history on the Details page.":::

## Share the flow

When the flow is running successfully, you can share it with your report readers. 

1. Select **Edit** in the **Run only users** section:

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/share-run-access-other-users.png" alt-text="Run only users.":::
 
1. Specify which users or groups you want to give run access to: 

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/manage-run-only-flow-permissions.png" alt-text="Manage run-only permissions."::: 

### Give users edit access

Alternatively, you can give any users edit access to the flow, not just run permissions.

1. Select **Share**, and specify the users or groups that you want to add as an owner:

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/share-flow-ownership.png" alt-text="Share flow ownership with others.":::

## Limitations and considerations

- Additional manual inputs to the button aren't supported at this time. We plan to add support for this by the general availability release.
- Currently, we only have a few built-in templates; we plan to add more based on user feedback.
- The visual isn't supported for PaaS embedded scenarios, nor in Sovereign Cloud scenarios. 

## Next steps

For more information about Power Automate, take a look at the following articles:

- [Integrate Power BI data alerts with Power Automate](../collaborate-share/service-flow-integration.md)
- [Export and email a Power BI report with Power Automate](../collaborate-share/service-automate-power-bi-report-export.md)
- [Get started with Power Automate](/power-automate/getting-started/)
- More questions? [Try the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)

Commit message:

ms pwr automate viz, add image, fix name

powerbi-docs/create-reports/power-bi-automate-visual.md, after:

---
title: Create a Power Automate visual for Power BI (preview)
description: You can create a Power Automate visual so your end-users can run an automated flow all within a Power BI report.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: sunaraya
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-reports-dashboards
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 06/25/2021
LocalizationGroup: Create reports
---
# Create a Power Automate visual for Power BI (preview)

When you create a Power Automate visual in a Power BI report, your end-users can run an automated flow, just by clicking a button in your report. Furthermore, the flow can be data contextual, meaning that the flow inputs can be dynamic, based on the filters the end-users set.

:::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/power-automate-visual-resized-repositioned-report.png" alt-text="Flow button resized and repositioned on the report.":::

## Download the visual

To get started, you download the visual from AppSource and import it to your Power BI report. You need to download it to every report you want to use it in. It's not added the Power BI Desktop.

1. In the **Visualizations** pane select **More options (...)** > **Get more visuals**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/automate-get-more-visuals.png" alt-text="Get more visuals.":::

2. In AppSource, search for **Power Automate** > **Add**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/power-bi-visuals-appsource.png" alt-text="Power Automate visual in AppSource.":::

    When it’s successfully imported, you see the **Power Automate** icon in the Visualization pane. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/power-automate-icon.png" alt-text="Select the Power Automate icon.":::


## Add the Power Automate visual

1. Select the Power Automate icon.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/power-automate-icon.png" alt-text="Select the Power Automate icon.":::

    It automatically gets added to your current report page, with getting started instructions.

1. Scroll, resize the visual, or select the **Focus mode** icon to see all the instructions.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/automate-new-visual.png" alt-text="Power Automate new visual added to the report.":::

1. After you’ve reviewed the instructions, resize the button and place it where you’d like on the report.

## Edit the flow

1. With the flow selected, add any data fields to the **Power Automate Data** region, to be used as dynamic inputs to the flow.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/add-data-field-visual.png" alt-text="Add any fields you want as dynamic inputs.":::

1. Select **More options (...)** > **Edit** to configure the button:

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/automate-edit-visual.png" alt-text="Select Edit to edit the flow.":::

1. In the edit mode of the visual, you either select an existing flow to apply to the button, or create a new flow to be applied to the button.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/apply-power-automate-flow.png" alt-text="Create a flow for a SharePoint list in Power B I.":::

1. You can start from scratch or start with one of the built-in templates as an example. To start from scratch, select **New** > **Instant cloud flow**: 

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/automate-instant-cloud-flow.png" alt-text="New Instant cloud flow."::: 

1. Select **New step**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/create-flow-from-scratch.png" alt-text="Start creating a flow from scratch."::: 

1. Here, you can choose a subsequent action or specify a Control if you want to specify additional logic to determine the subsequent action.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/choose-actions-for-flow.png" alt-text="Choose actions for the flow.":::

1. Optionally, you can reference the data field(s) as dynamic content if you want the flow to be data contextual. This example uses the Region data field to create an item in a SharePoint list. Based on the end-user’s selection, Region could have multiple values or just one.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/include-dynamic-content-for-flow-inputs.png" alt-text="Add dynamic content for the flow.":::

1. After you’ve configured your flow logic, you can name the flow and select **Save**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/save-flow.png" alt-text="Save the flow."::: 

1. Select the arrow button to go to the Details page of the flow you just created:

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/navigate-details-page-for-saved-flow.png" alt-text="Navigate to the Details page for the flow.":::

    Here's the Details page for a saved flow: 

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/details-page-saved-flow.png" alt-text="The Details page for a saved flow.":::

1. Select the **Apply** button :::image type="icon" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/apply-icon.png" border="false"::: to attach the flow you’ve created to your button.

### Format the flow

Optionally, you can change the button text, font color, font size, or fill color of the button. These options along with other settings are available in the **Format** pane: 

:::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/power-bi-flow-format.png" alt-text="Format the flow."::: 

## Test the flow

After you have applied a flow to the button, we recommend testing it before you share the flow with others. These Power BI flows can only run in the context of a Power BI report. You can't run these flows in a Power Automate web app or elsewhere.

If your flow is data contextual, you'll want to test how the filter selections in the report impact the flow outcome.

1. To test the flow in edit mode of the report, select **Back to report**, then press Ctrl while you select the button to run the flow. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/run-flow-button.png" alt-text="Select the Run flow button.":::

    The button text indicates that the flow has been triggered.

1. To check if the flow has run successfully, select the **More commands (...)** menu > **Details** in the flow that has been triggered:

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/entry-point-flow-details-page.png" alt-text="Select Details on the More options menu.":::

1. On the **Details** page, you can see the **run history** and **status** for the flow:

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/details-page-executed-flow.png" alt-text="See the run history on the Details page.":::

## Share the flow

When the flow is running successfully, you can share it with your report readers. 

1. Select **Edit** in the **Run only users** section:

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/share-run-access-other-users.png" alt-text="Run only users.":::
 
1. Specify which users or groups you want to give run access to: 

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/manage-run-only-flow-permissions.png" alt-text="Manage run-only permissions."::: 

### Give users edit access

Alternatively, you can give any users edit access to the flow, not just run permissions.

1. Select **Share** :::image type="icon" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/share-icon.png" border="false":::, and specify the users or groups that you want to add as an owner:

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-automate-visual/share-flow-ownership.png" alt-text="Share flow ownership with others.":::

## Limitations and considerations

- Additional manual inputs to the button aren't supported at this time. We plan to add support for this by the general availability release.
- Currently, we only have a few built-in templates; we plan to add more based on user feedback.
- The visual isn't supported for PaaS embedded scenarios, nor in Sovereign Cloud scenarios. 

## Next steps

For more information about Power Automate, take a look at the following articles:

- [Integrate Power BI data alerts with Power Automate](../collaborate-share/service-flow-integration.md)
- [Export and email a Power BI report with Power Automate](../collaborate-share/service-automate-power-bi-report-export.md)
- [Get started with Power Automate](/power-automate/getting-started/)
- More questions? [Try the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
