powerbi-docs/create-reports/power-bi-dark-mode.md, before:

---
title: Dark mode is now in Power BI Desktop
description: Learn how to create, format, and show Power BI report views that are optimized for mobile device users.
author: paulinbar
ms.author: painbar
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-reports-dashboards
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 03/25/2024
LocalizationGroup: Create reports
---
# Dark mode is now in Power BI Desktop

[!INCLUDE [applies-yes-desktop-yes-service](../includes/applies-yes-desktop-yes-service.md)]

A new feature in Power BI Desktop allows you to choose from a variety of themes, including dark mode. Whether you’re working late at the night or just prefer a darker interface, Dark Mode provides a sleek, modern look that reduces eye strain and enhances focus.

Now, you can personalize your data visualization experience to match your preferences and working environment.

## Several themes are available

- **Default**: The classic white theme that is currently standard for the desktop application.

- **Dark**: The newly introduced dark theme that transforms your desktop application with a darker interface.

- **Light**: A fresh white theme with updated stylings for a more modern look.

- **Use system setting**: Adapts the theme based on your Windows system settings.

## Choose a theme

1. Go to Files, then select Options and settings, and then click on Options.

1. In the Options menu, navigate to Global, and then to Report Settings.

1. Under the Personalization section, you can select any of the above mentioned themes.

## Different views in the new Dark vs new Light mode

### Backstage

#### Dark mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-back-stage.png" alt-text="Screenshot of backstage dark mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-back-stage.png":::

#### Light mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-back-stage.png" alt-text="Screenshot of backstage light mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-back-stage.png":::

### Report view

#### Dark mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-report.png" alt-text="Screenshot of report view dark mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-report.png":::

#### Light mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-report.png" alt-text="Screenshot of report view light mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-report.png":::

### Table view

#### Dark mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-table.png" alt-text="Screenshot of table view dark mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-table.png":::

#### Light mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-table.png" alt-text="Screenshot of table view light mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-table.png":::

### Model view

#### Dark mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-model-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of model view dark mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-model-view.png":::


#### Light mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-model-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of model view light mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-model-view.png":::

### DAX view

#### Dark mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-dax-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of DAX view dark mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-dax-view.png":::

#### Light mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-dax-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of DAX view light mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-dax-view.png":::

### Mobile layout

#### Dark mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-mobile-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of mobile view dark mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-mobile-view.png":::

#### Light mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-mobile-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of mobile view light mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-mobile-view.png":::

## Related content

* [Report view in Power BI Desktop](desktop-report-view.md)
* [Change Page view and Page size settings in your own Power BI reports](../consumer/end-user-report-view.md)
* Read more about [reports in Power BI](../consumer/end-user-reports.md)
* [Basic concepts for designers in the Power BI service](../fundamentals/service-basic-concepts.md)

Commit message:

ms dark mode update metadata

powerbi-docs/create-reports/power-bi-dark-mode.md, after:

---
title: Dark mode is now in Power BI Desktop
description: Learn how to Power BI Desktop allows you to choose from a variety of themes, including dark mode.
author: maggieMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-reports-dashboards
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 03/25/2024
LocalizationGroup: Create reports
---
# Dark mode is now in Power BI Desktop

[!INCLUDE [applies-yes-desktop-yes-service](../includes/applies-yes-desktop-yes-service.md)]

A new feature in Power BI Desktop allows you to choose from a variety of themes, including dark mode. Whether you’re working late at the night or just prefer a darker interface, Dark Mode provides a sleek, modern look that reduces eye strain and enhances focus.

Now, you can personalize your data visualization experience to match your preferences and working environment.

## Several themes are available

- **Default**: The classic white theme that is currently standard for the desktop application.

- **Dark**: The newly introduced dark theme that transforms your desktop application with a darker interface.

- **Light**: A fresh white theme with updated stylings for a more modern look.

- **Use system setting**: Adapts the theme based on your Windows system settings.

## Choose a theme

1. Go to Files, then select Options and settings, and then click on Options.

1. In the Options menu, navigate to Global, and then to Report Settings.

1. Under the Personalization section, you can select any of the above mentioned themes.

## Different views in the new Dark vs new Light mode

### Backstage

#### Dark mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-back-stage.png" alt-text="Screenshot of backstage dark mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-back-stage.png":::

#### Light mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-back-stage.png" alt-text="Screenshot of backstage light mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-back-stage.png":::

### Report view

#### Dark mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-report.png" alt-text="Screenshot of report view dark mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-report.png":::

#### Light mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-report.png" alt-text="Screenshot of report view light mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-report.png":::

### Table view

#### Dark mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-table.png" alt-text="Screenshot of table view dark mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-table.png":::

#### Light mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-table.png" alt-text="Screenshot of table view light mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-table.png":::

### Model view

#### Dark mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-model-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of model view dark mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-model-view.png":::


#### Light mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-model-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of model view light mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-model-view.png":::

### DAX view

#### Dark mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-dax-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of DAX view dark mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-dax-view.png":::

#### Light mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-dax-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of DAX view light mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-dax-view.png":::

### Mobile layout

#### Dark mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-mobile-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of mobile view dark mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-dark-mode-mobile-view.png":::

#### Light mode

:::image type="content" source="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-mobile-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of mobile view light mode." lightbox="media/dark-mode/power-bi-light-mode-mobile-view.png":::

## Related content

* [Report view in Power BI Desktop](desktop-report-view.md)
* [Change Page view and Page size settings in your own Power BI reports](../consumer/end-user-report-view.md)
* Read more about [reports in Power BI](../consumer/end-user-reports.md)
* [Basic concepts for designers in the Power BI service](../fundamentals/service-basic-concepts.md)
