powerbi-docs/create-reports/power-bi-customize-button.md, before:

---
title: Customize buttons in Power BI reports 
description: Learn how you can customize buttons in Power BI reports in many different ways to suit your requirements.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: ''
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-reports-dashboards
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 12/20/2024
LocalizationGroup: Create reports
#customer intent: As a Power BI user, I want to customize buttons in my reports so that I can enhance the visual appeal and functionality of my reports to better suit my requirements.
---
# Customize buttons in Power BI reports

[!INCLUDE [applies-yes-desktop-yes-service](../includes/applies-yes-desktop-yes-service.md)]

Whether you create a button in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service, you can customize it in many different ways to suit your requirements. For example, you can turn **Button Text** on or off, and you can change the button shape, icon, fill, title, or the action that happens when users select the button in a report, among other properties.

> [!NOTE]
> Customizing a button requires Edit permission to the report. Sharing a report requires a Power BI Pro or PPU license or for the report to be saved in Premium capacity. For more information, see [Which license do I have](../fundamentals/service-features-license-type.md) and [What is Premium](../enterprise/service-premium-what-is.md).

## Change the shape

A rectangle is the default shape for buttons, but you can change the shape:

1. Select the button you want to change.

1. Navigate to the **Shape** tab of the **Format button** pane, and customize the button to any of the available shapes (parallelogram, rounded rectangle, arrow, etc.):

:::image type="content" source="media/desktop-buttons/power-bi-customize-shape-parallelogram.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing button shape options.":::

## Change the size and position

You can resize any button with the mouse using the corner handles that appear when you select a button and hover over the edges. Grab and drag the handles to make the button smaller or larger.

For a more precise size adjustment, use the fields on the **Size** tab under **General** > **Properties**.

:::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-customize-button/button-properties.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to access the Properties tab for a button.":::

To move a button, use the mouse to drag and drop it to another position on the report canvas. You can also enter the exact coordinates on the **Position** tab under **General** > **Properties**.

## Add a custom image or icon

Another great way to customize your button is to add a custom image or icon for your button.

Here’s an example of a button with a custom image:

:::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-customize-button/power-bi-custom-image.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing an example of a button with a custom image.":::

To add a custom image or icon:

1. Select the button, and navigate to the **Style** > **Icon** tab of the **Format button** pane.

1. Select the **Custom** option for **Icon**, then select **Browse**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-customize-button/power-bi-add-custom-icon-desktop.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Browse option to add an image to a custom image.":::

1. After you add your image, you can customize the **Image fit** and **Icon placement**. With icon placement, you can place the image either **Left of text**, **Right of text**, **Below text**, or **Above text**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-customize-button/power-bi-icon-placement-illustration.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the icon placement options.":::

1. You can choose the **Custom** option to control the icon’s **Vertical alignment** and **Horizontal alignment**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-customize-button/power-bi-icon-placement-custom-desktop.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Horizontal alignment and Vertical alignment options for an icon.":::

1. You can also customize the **Icon size**. By default, the icon size is set to **Auto**, meaning that as you resize the button, the icon size automatically changes size. You can set a fixed **Icon size** (in pixels) by typing a number in the **Icon size** box.

## Add effects

Just like Power BI built-in shapes, Power BI buttons can have artistic effects to suit your design needs:

- **Shape shadow** effects
- **Shape glow** effects
- Button **Shape rotation** and **Text rotation**

## Related content

For more information about features that are similar or interact with buttons, take a look at the following articles:

- [Create and configure buttons in Power BI reports](desktop-buttons.md)
- [Identify and use buttons in the Power BI service](../consumer/end-user-buttons.md)
- [Create a drillthrough button in Power BI](desktop-drill-through-buttons.md)

Commit message:

Add purpose of article and link to desktop-buttons to power-bi-customize-button.md

powerbi-docs/create-reports/power-bi-customize-button.md, after:

---
title: Customize buttons in Power BI reports 
description: Learn how you can customize buttons in Power BI reports in many different ways to suit your requirements.
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: ''
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-reports-dashboards
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 12/20/2024
LocalizationGroup: Create reports
#customer intent: As a Power BI user, I want to customize buttons in my reports so that I can enhance the visual appeal and functionality of my reports to better suit my requirements.
---
# Customize buttons in Power BI reports

[!INCLUDE [applies-yes-desktop-yes-service](../includes/applies-yes-desktop-yes-service.md)]

Whether you create a button in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service, you can customize it in many different ways to suit your requirements. For example, you can turn **Button Text** on or off, and you can change the button shape, icon, fill, title, or the action that happens when users select the button in a report, among other properties.

This article highlights some of the ways in which you can customize a button in Power BI reports, like changing the shape, adding a custom image, and applying effects. To learn how to add and set up a button with an action, see [Create and configure buttons in Power BI reports](desktop-buttons.md).

> [!NOTE]
> Customizing a button requires Edit permission to the report. Sharing a report requires a Power BI Pro or PPU license or for the report to be saved in Premium capacity. For more information, see [Which license do I have](../fundamentals/service-features-license-type.md) and [What is Premium](../enterprise/service-premium-what-is.md).

## Change the shape

A rectangle is the default shape for buttons, but you can change the shape:

1. Select the button you want to change.

1. Navigate to the **Shape** tab of the **Format button** pane, and customize the button to any of the available shapes (parallelogram, rounded rectangle, arrow, etc.):

:::image type="content" source="media/desktop-buttons/power-bi-customize-shape-parallelogram.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing button shape options.":::

## Change the size and position

You can resize any button with the mouse using the corner handles that appear when you select a button and hover over the edges. Grab and drag the handles to make the button smaller or larger.

For a more precise size adjustment, use the fields on the **Size** tab under **General** > **Properties**.

:::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-customize-button/button-properties.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to access the Properties tab for a button.":::

To move a button, use the mouse to drag and drop it to another position on the report canvas. You can also enter the exact coordinates on the **Position** tab under **General** > **Properties**.

## Add a custom image or icon

Another great way to customize your button is to add a custom image or icon for your button.

Here’s an example of a button with a custom image:

:::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-customize-button/power-bi-custom-image.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing an example of a button with a custom image.":::

To add a custom image or icon:

1. Select the button, and navigate to the **Style** > **Icon** tab of the **Format button** pane.

1. Select the **Custom** option for **Icon**, then select **Browse**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-customize-button/power-bi-add-custom-icon-desktop.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Browse option to add an image to a custom image.":::

1. After you add your image, you can customize the **Image fit** and **Icon placement**. With icon placement, you can place the image either **Left of text**, **Right of text**, **Below text**, or **Above text**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-customize-button/power-bi-icon-placement-illustration.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the icon placement options.":::

1. You can choose the **Custom** option to control the icon’s **Vertical alignment** and **Horizontal alignment**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/power-bi-customize-button/power-bi-icon-placement-custom-desktop.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Horizontal alignment and Vertical alignment options for an icon.":::

1. You can also customize the **Icon size**. By default, the icon size is set to **Auto**, meaning that as you resize the button, the icon size automatically changes size. You can set a fixed **Icon size** (in pixels) by typing a number in the **Icon size** box.

## Add effects

Just like Power BI built-in shapes, Power BI buttons can have artistic effects to suit your design needs:

- **Shape shadow** effects
- **Shape glow** effects
- Button **Shape rotation** and **Text rotation**

## Related content

For more information about features that are similar or interact with buttons, take a look at the following articles:

- [Create and configure buttons in Power BI reports](desktop-buttons.md)
- [Identify and use buttons in the Power BI service](../consumer/end-user-buttons.md)
- [Create a drillthrough button in Power BI](desktop-drill-through-buttons.md)
