powerbi-docs/create-reports/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box.md, before:

---
title: Add a hyperlink to a text box in a report
description: Add a hyperlink to a text box in Power BI Desktop and the Power BI service
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: ''
featuredvideoid: ''
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-reports-dashboards
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 09/09/2021
ms.custom: video-_3q6VEBhGew
LocalizationGroup: Visualizations
---
# Add a hyperlink to a text box in a report
You can add a text box to a report in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service. You can pin a text box from a report to a dashboard, or add one directly to a dashboard. Wherever the text box is, you can always add a hyperlink to it. This article shows how to add a hyperlink to a text box in a report. 


Watch Will Thompson create a text box and add a hyperlink to it. 

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_3q6VEBhGew#t=0m55s" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

For information on hyperlinks in Power BI tables and matrixes, see [Add hyperlinks to a table](power-bi-hyperlinks-in-tables.md). For information on adding text boxes to your dashboard, see [Add images, videos, and more to your dashboard](service-dashboard-add-widget.md). 

## To add a hyperlink to a text box
1. Open a report, [create a text box](power-bi-reports-add-text-and-shapes.md), and add some text. 
2. Select existing text, or add new text to use as a hyperlink. 

   The text box menu appears.
   
   ![Select text in the text box](media/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box/power-bi-hyperlink-new.png)
3. Select the hyperlink icon ![Hyperlink icon](media/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box/power-bi-hyperlink-icon.png) on the text box menu.

   The hyperlink field appears on the text box menu.

4. Type or paste the URL in the hyperlink field, and then select **Done**.
   
   ![Type or paste the URL in the hyperlink field](media/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box/power-bi-add-link.png)
5. Test the link:  

   a. Place your cursor anywhere in the new hyperlink in the text box to display the URL in the hyperlink field.  
     
      ![Hyperlink in text box](media/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box/power-bi-test-link.png)
   
      ![URL in hyperlink field](media/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box/power-bi-hyperlink-edit.png)

   b. Select the URL in the hyperlink field to open the page in a new browser window.

## To remove the hyperlink
1. In the text box, place your cursor anywhere in the hyperlink.
   
     ![Remove the hyperlink](media/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box/power-bi-hyperlink-remove.png)
2. Select **Remove** from the hyperlink menu. 

   Power BI Desktop removes the hyperlink, but leaves the text.

## Next steps
[Text boxes and shapes in Power BI reports](power-bi-reports-add-text-and-shapes.md)

More questions? [Try the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/).

Commit message:

Note aded for videos and costum tag removed for non video

powerbi-docs/create-reports/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box.md, after:

---
title: Add a hyperlink to a text box in a report
description: Add a hyperlink to a text box in Power BI Desktop and the Power BI service
author: maggiesMSFT
ms.author: maggies
ms.reviewer: ''
featuredvideoid: ''
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: pbi-reports-dashboards
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 09/09/2021
ms.custom: video-_3q6VEBhGew
LocalizationGroup: Visualizations
---
# Add a hyperlink to a text box in a report
You can add a text box to a report in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service. You can pin a text box from a report to a dashboard, or add one directly to a dashboard. Wherever the text box is, you can always add a hyperlink to it. This article shows how to add a hyperlink to a text box in a report. 


Watch Will Thompson create a text box and add a hyperlink to it. 

> [!NOTE]  
> This video might use earlier versions of Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_3q6VEBhGew#t=0m55s" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

For information on hyperlinks in Power BI tables and matrixes, see [Add hyperlinks to a table](power-bi-hyperlinks-in-tables.md). For information on adding text boxes to your dashboard, see [Add images, videos, and more to your dashboard](service-dashboard-add-widget.md). 

## To add a hyperlink to a text box
1. Open a report, [create a text box](power-bi-reports-add-text-and-shapes.md), and add some text. 
2. Select existing text, or add new text to use as a hyperlink. 

   The text box menu appears.
   
   ![Select text in the text box](media/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box/power-bi-hyperlink-new.png)
3. Select the hyperlink icon ![Hyperlink icon](media/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box/power-bi-hyperlink-icon.png) on the text box menu.

   The hyperlink field appears on the text box menu.

4. Type or paste the URL in the hyperlink field, and then select **Done**.
   
   ![Type or paste the URL in the hyperlink field](media/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box/power-bi-add-link.png)
5. Test the link:  

   a. Place your cursor anywhere in the new hyperlink in the text box to display the URL in the hyperlink field.  
     
      ![Hyperlink in text box](media/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box/power-bi-test-link.png)
   
      ![URL in hyperlink field](media/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box/power-bi-hyperlink-edit.png)

   b. Select the URL in the hyperlink field to open the page in a new browser window.

## To remove the hyperlink
1. In the text box, place your cursor anywhere in the hyperlink.
   
     ![Remove the hyperlink](media/service-add-hyperlink-to-text-box/power-bi-hyperlink-remove.png)
2. Select **Remove** from the hyperlink menu. 

   Power BI Desktop removes the hyperlink, but leaves the text.

## Next steps
[Text boxes and shapes in Power BI reports](power-bi-reports-add-text-and-shapes.md)

More questions? [Try the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/).
