---
title: Tutorial - Create translytical task flow
description: In this tutorial, learn how to enable and create translytical task flows with Fabric user data functions.
author: kgremban
ms.author: kgremban
ms.reviewer: miguelmyers
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-service
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 05/16/2025
LocalizationGroup: Create reports
#customer intent:
---

# Tutorial: Create a translytical task flow (preview)

In this end-to-end tutorial, you create an example translytical task flow that writes back to a SQL Database in Fabric. To help illustrate the end-to-end step-up experience, we focus on a translytical task flow for a data annotation scenario.

In this tutorial, you learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Create a SQL database in Fabric.
> * Configure a user data function that writes back to a SQL database.
> * Integrate a user data function with a Power BI report.

If you don't have an existing Fabric capacity, [start a Fabric trial](/fabric/fundamentals/fabric-trial).

>[!NOTE]
>The translytical task flow feature is currently in public preview.

## Prerequisites

* Enable [required preview features](./translytical-task-flow-overview.md) in Power BI Desktop.
* Power BI Desktop. If you don't have Power BI Desktop installed on your device, follow the instructions in [Get Power BI Desktop](../fundamentals/desktop-get-the-desktop.md).

## Overview

Creating a translytical task flow requires three tasks to enable your automated scenarios:

* **Store data**

  Start with an existing Fabric data source. In this tutorial, we use a SQL database with sample data.

* **Develop data**

  Write a Fabric user data function that gets called from a Power BI report. This function can do any number of actions, from editing the report's data source to sending a notification to creating a work item in an approvals pipeline. In this tutorial, we create a user data function that takes a new product description and writes it to the SQL database.

* **Visualize data**

  Create a Power BI report that displays the source data and interactive elements that call the data function. In this tutorial, we use an input slicer to collect the product description from the user and send it to the user data function. Then, the report refreshes to show the updated table.

## Create a SQL database

This scenario uses the sample **AdventureWorksLT** dataset in SQL database.

1. Follow the steps in [Create a SQL database in the Fabric portal](/fabric/database/sql/create).

   Take note of the name that you give to the SQL database. You use this value later in the tutorial.

1. After you create the database, choose the **Sample data** option to load the **AdventureWorksLT** sample data into your empty database.

## Create a user data function

Create a user data function in a workspace.

1. Navigate to the workspace of your choice in Power BI or Fabric.
1. Select **New item**.
1. Select **User data functions** from the **Develop data** group.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/new-item-user-data-functions.png" alt-text="A screenshot that shows the user data functions tile on the new item menu.":::

1. Provide a name for the new user data function, for example **sqlwriteback**, then select **Create**.

   Take note of the name you use, and the workspace name. You use both of these values later in the tutorial.

1. Select **New function**.

### Connect to your SQL database

Connect the user data function to the SQL database you created previously. Make sure that you have access permissions to the SQL database before continuing.

1. Select **Manage connections** on the page for your new user data function.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/manage-connections.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows selecting 'manage connections' on the functions page.":::

1. Select **Add data connection**.
1. Select the **AdventureWorksLT** SQL database that you created previously, then select **Connect**.
1. When the connection is created, an alias is automatically created for the connection. Take note of the **Alias** value to use later in the tutorial.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/connection-alias.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows where to find the autogenerated alias for the data connection.":::

1. Close the **Connections** page to return to your user data function.

### Add function code

Add code to your user data function so that it writes data to the `[SalesLT].[ProductDescription]` table in the SQL database's AdventureWorksLT sample.

User data functions use pyodbc by default for SQL connections, and we recommend that library for this scenario.

To connect a user data function to a Power BI button, the function must return a string.

1. Replace the default code in your user data function with the following sample:

   ```python
   import fabric.functions as fn
   import uuid
   
   udf = fn.UserDataFunctions()
   
   @udf.connection(argName="sqlDB",alias="<REPLACE_WITH_CONNECTION_ALIAS>") 
   @udf.function() 
   
   # Take a product description and product model ID as input parameters and write them back to the SQL database
   # Users will provide these parameters in the PowerBI report
   def write_one_to_sql_db(sqlDB: fn.FabricSqlConnection, productDescription: str, productModelId:int) -> str: 
   
       # Error handling to ensure product description doesn't go above 200 characters
       if(len(productDescription) > 200):
           raise fn.UserThrownError("Descriptions have a 200 character limit. Please shorten your description.", {"Description:": productDescription})

       # Establish a connection to the SQL database  
       connection = sqlDB.connect() 
       cursor = connection.cursor() 
   
       # Insert data into the ProductDescription table  
       insert_description_query = "INSERT INTO [SalesLT].[ProductDescription] (Description) OUTPUT INSERTED.ProductDescriptionID VALUES (?)" 
       cursor.execute(insert_description_query, productDescription) 
   
       # Get the result from the previous query 
       results = cursor.fetchall() 
   
       # In real-world cases, call an API to retrieve the cultureId
       # For this example, generate a random Id instead
       cultureId = str(uuid.uuid4()) 
   
       # Insert data into the ProductModelProductDescription table 
       insert_model_description_query = "INSERT INTO [SalesLT].[ProductModelProductDescription] (ProductModelID, ProductDescriptionID, Culture) VALUES (?, ?, ?);" 
       cursor.execute(insert_model_description_query, (productModelId, results[0][0], cultureId[:6])) 
   
       # Commit the transaction 
       connection.commit() 
       cursor.close() 
       connection.close()  
   
       return "Product description was added" 
   ```

1. Find the following line of code in the sample:

   ```python
   @udf.connection(argName="sqlDB",alias="<REPLACE_WITH_CONNECTION_ALIAS>")
   ```

1. Replace the **alias** placeholder with the alias value from the previous section.

   You can open the **Manage connections** page again to view the connection alias.

### Test the sample code

Use the steps in this section if you want to test the sample code so far.

1. Select **Publish**.
1. Once the function is published, hover over the **write_one_to_sql_db** function on the **Functions explorer** menu, then select the **Run** icon.
1. On the **Run** page, provide sample data for the two required parameters:

   * **productDescription**: string
   * **productModelId**: integer between 1 and 127

1. Select **Run**.
1. Review the function output and the generated logs.
1. Close the **Run** page when you're done testing.

If you get any errors when running the sample code, check that your account has access permissions to the database.

### Grant user permissions (optional)

If other users interact with the Power BI report that calls this function, grant them **Execute functions** permissions.

1. On the functions page, select **Share**.
1. Select the first box of the **Create and send link** pop-up window.
1. Select **Execute Functions and View Functions Logs** from the **Additional permissions** list, then select **Apply**.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/select-permissions.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows adding the 'execute functions and view function logs' permissions.":::

1. In the **Enter a name or email address** box, provide the users or groups that you want to have permissions for this function.
1. Select **Send**.

## Create a Power BI report

In this section, you create a Power BI report that pulls data from the SQL database you created in the previous section.

### Connect to the SQL database

Connect to your SQL database as the data source for your report.

1. In Power BI Desktop, create a new report.
1. Select **OneLake Catalog** > **SQL database**.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/report-onelake-catalog.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows selecting SQL database from the OneLake catalog.":::

1. In the **OneLake catalog** window, select the database that you created in the previous section. For example, **AdventureWorksLT**. Then, select **Connect**.

1. Follow any prompts to authenticate to the database.

1. Once you successfully connect to the database, the **Navigator** window opens. Select the following tables, then select **Load**:

   * `SalesLT.ProductDescription`
   * `SalesLT.ProductModel`
   * `SalesLT.ProductModelProductDescription`

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/navigator-load-tables.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows loading three tables from the sample dataset into the Power BI report.":::

1. When prompted, choose **DirectQuery** as the connection mode, then select **Ok**.

   DirectQuery mode is a live connection that enables the report to refresh the data and reflect any data modifications. For more information, see [DirectQuery in Power BI](../connect-data/desktop-directquery-about.md).

### Build the Power BI report

In this section, build visuals with the data that you loaded into your Power BI report.

1. In the **Data** menu, select the following columns:

   * `SalesLT.ProductModel` > `Name`
   * `SalesLT.ProductModelProductDescription` > `ProductModelID`

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/report-select-columns.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows selecting the 'Name' and 'ProductModelID' columns to add to the report.":::

   A two-column table appears in your report window.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/report-with-table.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Power BI report with one table added to it.":::

1. In the **Visualizations** menu, select the **Input slicer** icon.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/text-slicer.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows selecting the input slicer visualization to add to the report.":::

   An input slicer visual appears in your report window.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/report-with-slicer.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Power BI report with an input slicer added to it.":::

1. Select the input slicer and use the **Format visual** > **General** > **Title** options to give the input slicer the following title: `Write a new product description`.

1. On the taskbar, select the **Insert** menu and add a **Blank** button to the report. Drag the button under the text slicer.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/report-with-button.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Power BI report with a button added to it.":::

1. Select the button and expand the **Action** options in the **Format button** pane. Turn the **Action** radio button to **On**.

1. Provide the following values for your button:

   | Parameter | Value |
   | --------- | ----- |
   | **Type** | Select **Data function** |
   | **Workspace** | Select the workspace that contains the user data function you made in the previous section. |
   | **Function Set** | Select the function set that contains your data function. For example, **sqlwriteback**. | 
   | **Data function** | Select your data function. For example, **write_one_to_sql_db**. |

   >[!TIP]
   >If you don't see the **Data function** option, make sure that the **Translytical task flows** preview feature is enabled in Power BI desktop.
   >
   >If you do see the **Data function** option but don't see your user data function, make sure that your data function returns a string.

1. Once you select your data function, more parameters appear to represent the parameters that the function takes. Provide the following values:

   | Parameter | Value |
   | --------- | ----- |
   | **productDescription** | Select the text slicer from your report, **Write a new product description**. |
   | **productModelId** | Select the **Conditional formatting** (**fx**) button. A new window opens.<br><br>For the **Format style** parameter, keep the default **Field value** value.<br><br>For the **What field should we base this on?** parameter, select **All data** > **SalesLT.ProductModel** > **ProductModelID**. |
   | **Summarization** | Select **Maximum**. |

1. Select **OK** to complete the action configuration. The **Action** details should look like the following example:

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/button-action.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the final action configuration details.":::

1. Select the button and expand the **Style** options in the **Format button** pane. Turn the **Text** radio button to **On** and label your button `Enter`.

1. In the **Style** options, switch the **Apply settings to** option to **Loading**.

   The loading state is a unique state available to data function buttons that you can use to define style options that appear while the data function is running.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/button-state.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows selecting the 'loading' state for a button style.":::

1. Expand the **Text** menu and replace the button text value with `Submitting`.

1. Expand the **Icon** menu.

   By default, a data function button has a **Spinner** icon type for the loading state.

1. Adjust the icon style with the following changes:

   | Parameter | Value |
   | --------- | ----- |
   | **Padding** | Change the left padding to `20 px`. |
   | **Icon size** | Replace the default **Auto** value with `20`. |

1. In the **Visualizations** pane, select the **Table** icon to insert a new table.

1. In the **Data** pane, select the following columns to add to your table:

   * `SalesLT.ProductModel` > `Name`
   * `SalesLT.ProductDescription` > `Description`
   * `SalesLT.ProductDescription` > `ModifiedDate`

   :::image type="content" source="./media/translytical-task-flow-tutorial/report-with-second-table.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Power BI report with a second table added to it.":::

### Optional report modifications

As with any Power BI report, there are many ways to customize the appearance and improve the functionality of this report. Consider some of these options:

* Add titles to the two tables. For example, **Select a product** and **Product description**.
* Set the text slicer to autoclear after submitting a new product description. To do so, select the button that triggers the user data function. In the **Format button** > **Action** menu, set the **Auto clear** toggle to **On**.
* Opt-out of autorefresh for the report after triggering the user data function. In this scenario, it's helpful to refresh the data and see the new product description appear in the table. In other scenarios, you might not need or want to refresh the report. To turn off this setting, select the button that triggers the user data function. In the **Format button** > **Action** menu, set the **Refresh the report after a successful outcome** toggle to **Off**.

## Run your translytical task flow

You can test the functionality of your translytical task flow in Power BI Desktop. But if you want to see the most accurate end-user experience, publish the report to Power BI service and test it in the web.

### Publish your report

You built your report in Power BI Desktop. In this section, you publish the report so that your users can interact with it in the web portal.

1. In the **Home** toolbar menu, select **Publish**.

1. Select the Power BI workspace where you want to publish this report, then select **Select**.

1. Once your report finishes publishing, select the link to **Open <REPORT_NAME>.pbix in Power BI**.

   >[!TIP]
   >When you open your report in the Power BI web portal, you might see an error that says, **The data source is missing credentials and cannot be accessed**. To resolve this error, use the following steps:
   >
   >1. Open the semantic model for your report and navigate to **File** > **Settings**. 
   >2. Expand the **Data source credentials** setting if it isn't already.
   >3. Select **Edit credentials**.
   >4. Choose your **Authentication method** from the dropdown menu. For example, **Basic** takes a username and password, and **OAuth2** enables single sign-on with your current account.
   >5. Provide the required information, if any, then select **Sign in**.

Now, you have a translytical task flow in a Power BI report that's available in the Power BI service.

### Run your translytical task flow

In this section, you interact with your report in the Power BI web portal to test the translytical task flow that you built.

Only users that are authorized to trigger data functions can use this feature. Any unauthorized users get a **Something went wrong** response.

1. Open your report in Power BI.
1. Select a product from the product table that lists the name and ID. This selection passes context to the text slicer for which product you want to update. You also see that the product description table filters to show all of the current descriptions for the selected product.
1. Write a new product description in the input text box.
1. Select the arrow icon or use the **Tab** key to submit the input. Once a product is selected and a description is provided, you see that the button switches to an enabled state.
1. Select the button to run the user data function.

If the translytical task flow worked correctly, you receive a message that says **The action on your report was submitted successfully**. The product description table refreshes to show the new description.

If anything goes wrong with the translytical task flow, you receive a message that says **Something went wrong**. Select **View details** to get more information about the reason for the failure. Some common reasons for an unsuccessful function run include:

* **Data validation**: Input values don't meet the data validation rules defined in the user data function.
* **Timeout error**: A function or process takes longer than the allowed time to complete.
* **Improper setup**: Errors in configuring the report elements, usually the button, can cause the task flow to fail or product unexpected results.
* **Unauthorized user**: The user doesn't have permissions to trigger the data function.

## Next steps

* To get ideas for translytical task flows that you can incorporate into your workflows, see [Translytical task flow examples](https://gist.github.com/Sujata994/c354ec8d0821e875e45c86f2bd1d5cc8#AddAnnotation).
* To learn more about options for integrating data function buttons into Power BI reports, see [Create a data function button in Power BI](./translytical-task-flow-button.md).
