powerbi-docs/guidance/report-tips-labels.md, before:

---
title: Optimize use of labels in Power BI reports
description: Four tips to optimize the use of labels in Power BI report visuals, in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: asaxton
ms.custom: video-ywx5xUN5VQM
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 02/15/2020
---

# Tips to optimize the use of labels in Power BI reports

This article targets you as a report author designing Power BI reports, working with visuals that have labels.

Watch the video demonstrating the top four tips to optimize the use of labels in your Power BI reports.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/ywx5xUN5VQM]

## Tips

In summary, the top four tips to optimize the use of labels in Power BI reports include:

1. Adjust label position
1. Adjust label color for contrast
1. Format labels for easy tracking
1. Avoid overwhelming labels

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- [Tips for creating stunning reports](../create-reports/desktop-tips-and-tricks-for-creating-reports.md)
- biDezine video: [Top 4 Tips to Optimize the Use of Labels in Power BI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ywx5xUN5VQM)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com)

Commit message:

Note aded for videos and costum tag removed for non video

powerbi-docs/guidance/report-tips-labels.md, after:

---
title: Optimize use of labels in Power BI reports
description: Four tips to optimize the use of labels in Power BI report visuals, in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: asaxton
ms.custom: video-ywx5xUN5VQM
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 02/15/2020
---

# Tips to optimize the use of labels in Power BI reports

This article targets you as a report author designing Power BI reports, working with visuals that have labels.

Watch the video demonstrating the top four tips to optimize the use of labels in your Power BI reports.

> [!NOTE]  
> This video might use earlier versions of Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/ywx5xUN5VQM]

## Tips

In summary, the top four tips to optimize the use of labels in Power BI reports include:

1. Adjust label position
1. Adjust label color for contrast
1. Format labels for easy tracking
1. Avoid overwhelming labels

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- [Tips for creating stunning reports](../create-reports/desktop-tips-and-tricks-for-creating-reports.md)
- biDezine video: [Top 4 Tips to Optimize the Use of Labels in Power BI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ywx5xUN5VQM)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com)
