powerbi-docs/guidance/report-tips-chart-gridlines.md, before:

---
title: Control chart gridlines in Power BI reports
description: Three tips to control chart gridlines in Power BI report visuals, in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: asaxton
ms.custom: video-Y-igshes2LI
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 02/15/2020
---

# Tips to control chart gridlines in Power BI reports

This article targets you as a report author designing Power BI reports, working with chart visuals that have gridlines.

Watch the video demonstrating the top three tips to control gridlines in your Power BI reports.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/Y-igshes2LI]

## Tips

In summary, the top three tips to control chart gridlines in Power BI reports include:

1. Sort by value
1. Sort by time/numerical sequences
1. Sort by categorical sequences

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- [Tips for creating stunning reports](../create-reports/desktop-tips-and-tricks-for-creating-reports.md)
- biDezine video: [Top 3 Tips to Control Chart Gridlines in Power BI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y-igshes2LI)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com)

Commit message:

Note aded for videos and costum tag removed for non video

powerbi-docs/guidance/report-tips-chart-gridlines.md, after:

---
title: Control chart gridlines in Power BI reports
description: Three tips to control chart gridlines in Power BI report visuals, in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: asaxton
ms.custom: video-Y-igshes2LI
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 02/15/2020
---

# Tips to control chart gridlines in Power BI reports

This article targets you as a report author designing Power BI reports, working with chart visuals that have gridlines.

Watch the video demonstrating the top three tips to control gridlines in your Power BI reports.

> [!NOTE]  
> This video might use earlier versions of Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/Y-igshes2LI]

## Tips

In summary, the top three tips to control chart gridlines in Power BI reports include:

1. Sort by value
1. Sort by time/numerical sequences
1. Sort by categorical sequences

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- [Tips for creating stunning reports](../create-reports/desktop-tips-and-tricks-for-creating-reports.md)
- biDezine video: [Top 3 Tips to Control Chart Gridlines in Power BI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y-igshes2LI)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com)
