powerbi-docs/guidance/report-tips-shapes-images-icons.md, before:

---
title: Tips to improve analysis with shapes, images, and icons in Power BI reports
description: Four tips to improve analysis with shapes, images, and icons in Power BI report visuals, in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: asaxton
ms.custom: video--gLwXonWNsI
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 03/25/2020
---

# Tips to improve analysis with shapes, images, and icons in Power BI reports

This article targets you as a report author designing Power BI reports, enhancing visuals with shapes, images, or icons.

Watch the video demonstrating the top four tips to improve analysis with shapes, images, and icons in Power BI reports.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/-gLwXonWNsI]

## Tips

In summary, the top four tips to improve analysis with shapes, images, and icons in Power BI reports include:

1. Design reports for accessibility
1. Use plot area images for context
1. Use images to convey information
1. Add icons to enrich report designs

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- [Tips for creating stunning reports](../create-reports/desktop-tips-and-tricks-for-creating-reports.md)
- biDezine video: [Top 4 Tips to Improve Analysis with Pictograms in Power BI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-gLwXonWNsI)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com/)

Commit message:

Note aded for videos and costum tag removed for non video

powerbi-docs/guidance/report-tips-shapes-images-icons.md, after:

---
title: Tips to improve analysis with shapes, images, and icons in Power BI reports
description: Four tips to improve analysis with shapes, images, and icons in Power BI report visuals, in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: asaxton
ms.custom: video--gLwXonWNsI
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 03/25/2020
---

# Tips to improve analysis with shapes, images, and icons in Power BI reports

This article targets you as a report author designing Power BI reports, enhancing visuals with shapes, images, or icons.

Watch the video demonstrating the top four tips to improve analysis with shapes, images, and icons in Power BI reports.

> [!NOTE]  
> This video might use earlier versions of Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/-gLwXonWNsI]

## Tips

In summary, the top four tips to improve analysis with shapes, images, and icons in Power BI reports include:

1. Design reports for accessibility
1. Use plot area images for context
1. Use images to convey information
1. Add icons to enrich report designs

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- [Tips for creating stunning reports](../create-reports/desktop-tips-and-tricks-for-creating-reports.md)
- biDezine video: [Top 4 Tips to Improve Analysis with Pictograms in Power BI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-gLwXonWNsI)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com/)
