powerbi-docs/guidance/report-tips-sort-distribute-data-plots.md, before:

---
title: Tips to sort and distribute data plots in Power BI reports
description: Nine tips to sort and distribute data plots in Power BI report visuals, in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: asaxton
ms.custom: video-BnhA4qa-9Jk
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 03/25/2020
---

# Tips to sort and distribute data plots in Power BI reports

This article targets you as a report author designing Power BI reports, when using data plot visuals.

Watch the video demonstrating the top nine tips to sort and distribute data plots in Power BI reports.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/BnhA4qa-9Jk]

## Tips

In summary, the top nine tips to sort and distribute data plots in Power BI reports include:

1. Sort nominal categories
1. Sort interval categories
1. Sort ordinal categories
1. Visualize distant plots
1. Visualize crowded categorical plots
1. Visualize crowded time plots
1. Distribute multiple dimensions
1. Categorize data plots
1. Differentiate value plots

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- [Tips for creating stunning reports](../create-reports/desktop-tips-and-tricks-for-creating-reports.md)
- biDezine video: [Top 9 Tips to Sort and Distribute data plots in Power BI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BnhA4qa-9Jk)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com/)

Commit message:

Note aded for videos and costum tag removed for non video

powerbi-docs/guidance/report-tips-sort-distribute-data-plots.md, after:

---
title: Tips to sort and distribute data plots in Power BI reports
description: Nine tips to sort and distribute data plots in Power BI report visuals, in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: asaxton
ms.custom: video-BnhA4qa-9Jk
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 03/25/2020
---

# Tips to sort and distribute data plots in Power BI reports

This article targets you as a report author designing Power BI reports, when using data plot visuals.

Watch the video demonstrating the top nine tips to sort and distribute data plots in Power BI reports.

> [!NOTE]  
> This video might use earlier versions of Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/BnhA4qa-9Jk]

## Tips

In summary, the top nine tips to sort and distribute data plots in Power BI reports include:

1. Sort nominal categories
1. Sort interval categories
1. Sort ordinal categories
1. Visualize distant plots
1. Visualize crowded categorical plots
1. Visualize crowded time plots
1. Distribute multiple dimensions
1. Categorize data plots
1. Differentiate value plots

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- [Tips for creating stunning reports](../create-reports/desktop-tips-and-tricks-for-creating-reports.md)
- biDezine video: [Top 9 Tips to Sort and Distribute data plots in Power BI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BnhA4qa-9Jk)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com/)
