powerbi-docs/guidance/report-design-tips-axes.md, before:

---
title: Tips to manage axes in Power BI reports
description: Eight tips to effectively manage axes in Power BI report visuals, in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: asaxton
ms.custom: video-3t9W7Xvpzo0
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 01/29/2020
---

# Tips to manage axes in Power BI reports

This article targets you as a report author designing Power BI reports, working with visuals that have axes. These visuals include bar charts, columns charts, line charts, and many others.

Watch the video demonstrating eight tips to effectively manage axes in your Power BI reports.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/3t9W7Xvpzo0]

## Tips

In summary, the top eight tips to effectively manage axes in Power BI reports include:

1. Visualize nominal categories
1. Visualize interval categories
1. Adjust X-axis labels
1. Adjust Y-axis labels
1. Manage X-axis hierarchies
1. Manage Y-axis hierarchies
1. Avoid the X-axis scrollbar
1. Remove axes to create sparklines

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- [Tips for creating stunning reports](../create-reports/desktop-tips-and-tricks-for-creating-reports.md)
- biDezine video: [Top 8 Tips To Effectively Manage Axes in Power BI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3t9W7Xvpzo0)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com)

Commit message:

Note aded for videos and costum tag removed for non video

powerbi-docs/guidance/report-design-tips-axes.md, after:

---
title: Tips to manage axes in Power BI reports
description: Eight tips to effectively manage axes in Power BI report visuals, in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: asaxton
ms.custom: video-3t9W7Xvpzo0
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 01/29/2020
---

# Tips to manage axes in Power BI reports

This article targets you as a report author designing Power BI reports, working with visuals that have axes. These visuals include bar charts, columns charts, line charts, and many others.

Watch the video demonstrating eight tips to effectively manage axes in your Power BI reports.

> [!NOTE]  
> This video might use earlier versions of Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/3t9W7Xvpzo0]

## Tips

In summary, the top eight tips to effectively manage axes in Power BI reports include:

1. Visualize nominal categories
1. Visualize interval categories
1. Adjust X-axis labels
1. Adjust Y-axis labels
1. Manage X-axis hierarchies
1. Manage Y-axis hierarchies
1. Avoid the X-axis scrollbar
1. Remove axes to create sparklines

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- [Tips for creating stunning reports](../create-reports/desktop-tips-and-tricks-for-creating-reports.md)
- biDezine video: [Top 8 Tips To Effectively Manage Axes in Power BI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3t9W7Xvpzo0)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com)
