powerbi-docs/guidance/report-tips-visual-colors.md, before:

---
title: Optimize visual colors in Power BI reports
description: Eight tips to optimize visual colors in Power BI report visuals, in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: asaxton
ms.custom: video-RhYcEsdPqJg
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 02/15/2020
---

# Tips to optimize visual colors in Power BI reports

This article targets you as a report author designing Power BI reports, configuring visual colors.

Watch the video demonstrating the top eight tips to optimize visual colors in your Power BI reports.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/RhYcEsdPqJg]

## Tips

In summary, the top eight tips to optimize visual colors in Power BI reports include:

1. Apply contrast within visuals
1. Implement optimal color palettes
1. Highlight important data with color
1. Consider color vision deficiencies
1. Use color with purpose
1. Choose appropriate color scales
1. Use color to differentiate key elements
1. Distinguish color and data

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- [Tips for creating stunning reports](../create-reports/desktop-tips-and-tricks-for-creating-reports.md)
- biDezine video: [Top 8 Tips To Optimize Visual Colors in Power BI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RhYcEsdPqJg)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com)

Commit message:

Note aded for videos and costum tag removed for non video

powerbi-docs/guidance/report-tips-visual-colors.md, after:

---
title: Optimize visual colors in Power BI reports
description: Eight tips to optimize visual colors in Power BI report visuals, in Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.
author: peter-myers
ms.author: kfollis
ms.reviewer: asaxton
ms.custom: video-RhYcEsdPqJg
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-resource
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 02/15/2020
---

# Tips to optimize visual colors in Power BI reports

This article targets you as a report author designing Power BI reports, configuring visual colors.

Watch the video demonstrating the top eight tips to optimize visual colors in your Power BI reports.

> [!NOTE]  
> This video might use earlier versions of Power BI Desktop or the Power BI service.

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/RhYcEsdPqJg]

## Tips

In summary, the top eight tips to optimize visual colors in Power BI reports include:

1. Apply contrast within visuals
1. Implement optimal color palettes
1. Highlight important data with color
1. Consider color vision deficiencies
1. Use color with purpose
1. Choose appropriate color scales
1. Use color to differentiate key elements
1. Distinguish color and data

## Next steps

For more information related to this article, check out the following resources:

- [Tips for creating stunning reports](../create-reports/desktop-tips-and-tricks-for-creating-reports.md)
- biDezine video: [Top 8 Tips To Optimize Visual Colors in Power BI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RhYcEsdPqJg)
- Questions? [Try asking the Power BI Community](https://community.powerbi.com/)
- Suggestions? [Contribute ideas to improve Power BI](https://ideas.powerbi.com)
