---
title: Monitor Power BI Embedded
description: Start here to learn how to monitor Power BI Embedded.
author: KesemSharabi
ms.author: kesharab
ms.reviewer: ''
ms.service: powerbi
ms.subservice: powerbi-developer
ms.topic: how to
ms.date: 12/23/2020
---

# Monitor Power BI Embedded

When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation. This article describes the monitoring data generated by Power BI Embedded and how you can use the features of Azure Monitor to analyze and alert on this data.

## Monitor overview

The **Overview** page in the Azure portal for each *[Service resource]* includes *[provide a description of the data in the Overview page.]*.

## What is Azure Monitor?

*Power BI Embedded* creates monitoring data using [Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/overview), which is a full stack monitoring service in Azure that provides a complete set of features to monitor your Azure resources in addition to resources in other clouds and on-premises.

Start with the article [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/insights/monitor-azure-resource), which describes the following concepts:

- What is Azure Monitor?
- Costs associated with monitoring
- Monitoring data collected in Azure
- Configuring data collection
- Standard tools in Azure for analyzing and alerting on monitoring data

The following sections build on this article by describing the specific data gathered for Power BI Embedded and providing examples for configuring data collection and analyzing this data with Azure tools.

## Monitoring data

Power BI Embedded collects the same kinds of monitoring data as other Azure resources that are described in [Monitoring data from Azure resources](/azure/azure-monitor/insights/monitor-azure-resource#monitoring-data-from-Azure-resources). 

See [Monitoring *Power BI Embedded* data reference](monitor-service-reference.md) for detailed information on the metrics and logs metrics created by Power BI Embedded.

## Collection and routing

Platform metrics and the Activity log are collected and stored automatically, but can be routed to other locations by using a diagnostic setting.  

Resource Logs are not collected and stored until you create a diagnostic setting and route them to one or more locations.

<!-- Include any additional information on collecting logs.  The number of things that diagnostics settings control is expanding -->

See [Create diagnostic setting to collect platform logs and metrics in Azure](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/diagnostic-settings) for the detailed process for creating a diagnostic setting using the Azure portal, CLI, or PowerShell. When you create a diagnostic setting, you specify which categories of logs to collect. The categories for *Power BI Embedded* are listed in [Power BI Embedded monitoring data reference](monitor-service-reference.md#resource-logs).

### Using PowerShell to enable diagnostics

To enable metrics and diagnostics logging by using PowerShell, use the following commands:

* To enable storage of diagnostics logs in a storage account, use this command:

    ```powershell
    Set-AzureRmDiagnosticSetting -ResourceId [your resource id] -StorageAccountId [your storage account id] -Enabled $true
    ```
    The storage account ID is the resource ID for the storage account where you want to send the logs.

* To enable streaming of diagnostics logs to an event hub, use this command:

    ```powershell
    Set-AzureRmDiagnosticSetting -ResourceId [your resource id] -ServiceBusRuleId [your service bus rule id] -Enabled $true
    ```
* The Azure Service Bus rule ID is a string with this format:

    ```powershell
    {service bus resource ID}/authorizationrules/{key name}
    ```

* To enable sending diagnostics logs to a Log Analytics workspace, use this command:

    ```powershell
        Set-AzureRmDiagnosticSetting -ResourceId [your resource id] -WorkspaceId [resource id of the log analytics workspace] -Enabled $true
    ```

* You can obtain the resource ID of your Log Analytics workspace by using the following command:

    ```powershell
    (Get-AzureRmOperationalInsightsWorkspace).ResourceId
    ```

You can combine these parameters to enable multiple output options.

The metrics and logs you can collect are discussed in the following sections.

## Analyzing metrics

You can analyze metrics for *Power BI Embedded* with metrics from other Azure services using metrics explorer by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/metrics-getting-started) for details on using this tool.

<!-- Point to the list of metrics available in your monitor-service-reference article. -->
For a list of the platform metrics collected for Power BI Embedded, see [Monitoring *[service-name]* data reference metrics](monitor-service-reference#metrics)  

For reference, you can see a list of [all resource metrics supported in Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/metrics-supported).

<!--  Optional: Call out additional information to help your customers. For example, you can include additional information here about how to use metrics explorer specifically for your service. Remember that the UI is subject to change quite often so you will need to maintain these screenshots yourself if you add them in. -->

## Analyzing logs

<!-- REQUIRED. Please keep headings in this order
If you don't support resource logs, say so. Some services may be only onboarded to metrics and the activity log. -->

Data in Azure Monitor Logs is stored in tables where each table has its own set of unique properties.  

All resource logs in Azure Monitor have the same fields followed by service-specific fields. The common schema is outlined in [Azure Monitor resource log schema](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/platform/diagnostic-logs-schema#top-level-resource-logs-schema) The schema for [service name] resource logs is found in the [Power BI Embedded Data Reference](monitor-service-reference#schemas)

The [Activity log](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/activity-log) is a platform login Azure that provides insight into subscription-level events. You can view it independently or route it to Azure Monitor Logs, where you can do much more complex queries using Log Analytics.  

For a list of the types of resource logs collected for Power BI Embedded, see [Monitoring Power BI Embedded data reference](monitor-service-reference#logs)  

For a list of the tables used by Azure Monitor Logs and queryable by Log Analytics, see [Monitoring Power BI Embedded data reference](monitor-service-reference#azuremonitorlogstables)  

<!--  Optional: Call out additional information to help your customers. For example, you can include additional information here about log usage or what logs are most important. Remember that the UI is subject to change quite often so you will need to maintain these screenshots yourself if you add them in. -->

### Sample Kusto queries

<!-- REQUIRED if you support logs. Please keep headings in this order -->
<!-- Add sample Log Analytics Kusto queries for your service. -->

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When you select **Logs** from the [service-name] menu, Log Analytics is opened with the query scope set to the current [Service resource]. This means that log queries will only include data from that resource. If you want to run a query that includes data from other [resource] or data from other Azure services, select **Logs** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Log query scope and time range in Azure Monitor Log Analytics](/azure/azure-monitor/log-query/scope/) for details.

<!-- REQUIRED: Include queries that are helpful for figuring out the health and state of your service. Ideally, use some of these queries in the alerts section. It's possible that some of your queries may be in the Log Analytics UI (sample or example queries). Check if so.  -->

Following are queries that you can use to help you monitor your [Service] resource. 

<!-- Put in a code section here. -->  
```Kusto
   
```

## Alerts

<!-- SUGGESTED: Include useful alerts on metrics, logs, log conditions or activity log. Ask your PMs if you don't know. 
This information is the BIGGEST request we get in Azure Monitor so do not avoid it long term. People don't know what to monitor for best results. Be prescriptive  
-->

Azure Monitor alerts proactively notify you when important conditions are found in your monitoring data. They allow you to identify and address issues in your system before your customers notice them. You can set alerts on [metrics](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/alerts-metric-overview), [logs](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/alerts-unified-log), and the [activity log](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/activity-log-alerts). Different types of alerts have benefits and drawbacks

<!-- only include next line if applications run on your service and work with App Insights. --> If you are creating or running an application which run on <*service*> [Azure Monitor Application Insights](/azure/azure-monitor/overview#application-insights) may offer additional types of alerts.
<!-- end -->

The following table lists common and recommended alert rules for [service-name].

<!-- Fill in the table with metric and log alerts that would be valuable for your service. Change the format as necessary to make it more readable -->
| Alert type | Condition | Description  |
|:---|:---|:---|
| | | |
| | | |

## Next steps

<!-- Add additional links. You can change the wording of these and add more if useful.   -->

- See [Monitoring [service-name] data reference](monitor-service-reference.md) for a reference of the metrics, logs, and other important values created by [service name].
*>.
- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/insights/monitor-azure-resource) for details on monitoring Azure resources.

## Next steps

You can learn more about Azure resource diagnostic logging.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Azure resource diagnostic logging](/azure/monitoring-and-diagnostics/monitoring-overview-of-diagnostic-logs)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Set-AzureRmDiagnosticSetting](/powershell/module/azurerm.insights/Set-AzureRmDiagnosticSetting)